-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 E8YRwv1lfKGGpBlPL3OKDaB7VmoDjJqy3FcmVWzUQ77eoofUJz4AbmT4ysTRAKoN
 piTWFmAXMa3Vq1X2XVh0Lw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000021344-01-000005.txt : 20010308
<SEC-HEADER>0000021344-01-000005.hdr.sgml : 20010308
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000021344-01-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010307

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COCA COLA CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000021344
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BEVERAGES [2080]
		IRS NUMBER:				580628465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02217
		FILM NUMBER:		1562865

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE COCA COLA PLAZA
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30313
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4046762121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE COCA COLA PLAZA
		ZIP:			30313
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<TEXT>

================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

             [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                       FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM TO
                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-2217

                      [THE COCA-COLA COMPANY LOGO PASTEUP]

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                  DELAWARE                        58-0628465
       (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
        incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

            ONE COCA-COLA PLAZA                      30313
              ATLANTA, GEORGIA                     (Zip Code)
   (Address of principal executive offices)

   REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (404) 676-2121

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
      TITLE OF EACH CLASS                           WHICH REGISTERED
      -------------------                       ------------------------
   COMMON STOCK, $.25 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

INDICATE  BY CHECK  MARK  WHETHER  THE  REGISTRANT  (1) HAS FILED  ALL  REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE  ACT OF
1934  DURING THE  PRECEDING  12 MONTHS AND (2) HAS BEEN  SUBJECT TO SUCH  FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                        YES [X]           NO [ }

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT  FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION  S-K IS NOT CONTAINED  HEREIN,  AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED,  TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S  KNOWLEDGE,  IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION  STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  [ ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE COMMON EQUITY HELD BY  NON-AFFILIATES  OF THE
REGISTRANT  (ASSUMING  FOR  THESE  PURPOSES,  BUT  WITHOUT  CONCEDING,  THAT ALL
EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS AND  DIRECTORS ARE  "AFFILIATES"  OF THE  REGISTRANT)  AS OF
FEBRUARY  20, 2001 (BASED ON THE CLOSING SALE PRICE OF THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON
STOCK AS REPORTED  ON THE NEW YORK STOCK  EXCHANGE  ON  FEBRUARY  20,  2001) WAS
$126,595,639,441.

THE  NUMBER  OF  SHARES  OUTSTANDING  OF THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  STOCK AS OF
FEBRUARY 20, 2001, WAS 2,487,036,532.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS  OF THE  COMPANY'S  ANNUAL  REPORT TO SHARE  OWNERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 2000, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PARTS I, II AND IV.


PORTIONS  OF THE  COMPANY'S  PROXY  STATEMENT  FOR THE ANNUAL  MEETING OF SHARE
OWNERS TO BE HELD ON APRIL 18, 2001, ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III.

================================================================================
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
- ----------------

     The Coca-Cola  Company  (together with its  subsidiaries,  the "Company" or
"our Company") was incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of
Delaware and  succeeded to the business of a Georgia  corporation  with the same
name that had been organized in 1892.  Our Company is the largest  manufacturer,
distributor  and  marketer of soft drink  concentrates  and syrups in the world.
Finished beverage products bearing the Company's trademarks,  sold in the United
States since 1886,  are now sold in nearly 200 countries and include the leading
soft drink  products in most of these  countries.  The Company  also markets and
distributes  juice and  juice-drink  products.

     Our  Company is one of numerous  competitors  in the  commercial  beverages
market.  Of the approximately 48 billion beverage servings of all types consumed
worldwide  every day,  beverages  bearing  the  Company's  trademarks  ("Company
Trademark  Beverages")  account for more than one  billion.

     The  business of our Company is nonalcoholic beverages -- principally  soft
drinks but also a variety of  noncarbonated  beverages.  As used in this report,
the term "soft drinks" refers to nonalcoholic  carbonated  beverages  containing
flavorings  and  sweeteners,   excluding   flavored  waters  and  carbonated  or
noncarbonated  teas,  coffees and sports drinks.

     Our Company believes that its success  ultimately depends on its ability to
build and nurture  relationships with others:  consumers,  customers,  bottlers,
partners,  governmental  authorities  and other  constituencies  touched  by our
business.  To this end, the Company has adopted an overriding  business strategy
of "Think  local,  act  local,"  applicable  to  virtually  all  aspects  of its
business. This strategy is designed to put the responsibility and accountability
for ensuring local relevance and maximizing business performance in the hands of
those closest to the market, locale by locale.

     For the year ended  December 31, 2000,  the Company's  operating  structure
included the following  operating  segments:  the North America Group (including
The Minute  Maid  Company);  the Africa and Middle  East  Group;  the Europe and
Eurasia Group;  the Latin America Group;  the Asia Pacific Group; and Corporate.
The North America Group includes the United States and Canada. Effective January
1,  2000,  two  of  the  Company's   operating   segments  were   geographically
reconfigured  and renamed.  The Middle East & North Africa Division was added to
the Africa Group, which changed its name to the Africa and Middle East Group. At
the same time the Middle & Far East  Group,  less the  relocated  Middle  East &
North Africa Division, changed its name to the Asia Pacific Group. In the fourth
quarter of 2000,  the  Greater  Europe  Group was renamed the Europe and Eurasia
Group.

     On March 4,  2001,  our  Company  announced  a new  operational  management
structure.  Four strategic  business units are being  created:  Americas,  Asia,
Europe/Africa,  and  Coca-Cola  Ventures.  The heads of of these four  strategic
business units will be as follows:  Jeffrey T. Dunn (Americas),  A.R.C.  "Sandy"
Allan (Asia), Charles S. Frenette (Europe/Africa) and Steven J. Heyer (Coca-Cola
Ventures).  See "Item X. -- Executive Officers of the Company." These executives
will  report to Douglas N. Daft,  Chairman of the Board of  Directors  and Chief
Executive  Officer of the Company.  All other corporate  functions will maintain
their current reporting responsibilities.

     Except to the  extent  that  differences  between  operating  segments  are
material to an  understanding  of our Company's  business taken as a whole,  the
description  of  the  Company's  business  in  this  report  is  presented  on a
consolidated  basis.

     In the following table,  prior period amounts have been restated to conform
to the current period presentation.  Of the Company's consolidated net operating
revenues and operating  income for each of the past three years,  the percentage
represented by each operating segment (excluding Corporate) is as follows:


<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                          North     Africa and     Europe       Latin     Asia
                         America   Middle East   and Eurasia   America   Pacific
                         -------   -----------   -----------   -------   -------
<S>                       <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>       <C>
Net Operating Revenues
         2000              39%         4%            21%         11%       25%
         1999              38%         4%            23%         10%       25%
         1998              37%         4%            26%         12%       21%

Operating Income
         2000              29%         2%            30%         19%       20%
         1999              31%         2%            23%         18%       26%
         1998              24%         4%            29%         19%       24%


</TABLE>

     For additional financial information about the Company's operating segments
and  geographic  areas,  see  Notes 1, 14 and 18 to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  set forth on pages  51-52,  62-63 and 65-67,  respectively,  of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2000,
incorporated herein by reference.

     Our Company  manufactures and sells soft drink and  noncarbonated  beverage
concentrates and syrups, including fountain syrups, some finished beverages, and
certain juice and juice-drink products. Syrups are composed of sweetener,  water
and flavoring  concentrate.  The  concentrates and syrups for bottled and canned
beverages are sold by the Company to authorized bottling and canning operations.
The  bottlers or canners of soft drink  products  either  combine the syrup with
carbonated water or combine the concentrate with sweetener, water and carbonated
water to produce finished soft drinks.  The finished soft drinks are packaged in
authorized containers bearing our Company's  trademarks -- cans,  refillable and
non-refillable glass and plastic  bottles -- for sale to  retailers  or, in some
cases,  wholesalers.  Fountain syrups are  manufactured and sold by the Company,
principally in the United States,  to authorized  fountain  wholesalers and some
fountain  retailers.  (Outside the United States,  fountain syrups typically are
manufactured  by  authorized  bottlers  from  concentrates  sold  to them by the
Company.)   Authorized  fountain   wholesalers   (including  certain  authorized
bottlers) sell fountain syrups to fountain retailers. The fountain retailers use
dispensing  equipment to mix the syrup with  carbonated  or still water and then
sell  finished soft drinks or  noncarbonated  beverages to consumers in cups and
glasses.  Finished  beverages  manufactured  by our  Company  are  sold by it to
authorized  bottlers  or  distributors,  who in  turn  sell  these  products  to
retailers or, in some cases, wholesalers. Both directly and through a network of
business   partners  that  includes  certain  Coca-Cola   bottlers,   juice  and
juice-drink  products  manufactured  by the  Company  are sold by our Company to
retailers and wholesalers in the United States and numerous other countries.

     The Company's  beverage  products,  including  bottled and canned beverages
produced by independent and Company-owned  bottling and canning  operations,  as
well as concentrates and syrups, include Coca-Cola,  Coca-Cola classic, caffeine
free  Coca-Cola,  caffeine  free  Coca-Cola  classic,  diet Coke (sold under the
trademark Coca-Cola light in many countries outside the United States), caffeine
free diet Coke, Cherry Coke, diet Cherry Coke, Fanta brand soft drinks,  Sprite,
diet Sprite,  Mr. Pibb,  Mello Yello,  TAB,  Fresca,  Barq's root beer and other
flavors,  Surge,  Citra,  POWERaDE,  Fruitopia,  Minute Maid flavors,  Aquarius,
Sokenbicha,  Ciel, Bonaqa,  Dasani,  Lift, Thums Up and other products developed
for specific  countries,  including Georgia brand  ready-to-drink  coffees,  and
numerous  other brands.  In many countries  (excluding the United States,  among
others) our Company's beverage products also include  Schweppes,  Canada Dry, Dr
Pepper and Crush. The Minute Maid Company, a division with operations  primarily
in the United States and Canada,  produces,  distributes and markets principally
juice and juice-drink products, including Minute Maid brand products, Five Alive
brand refreshment beverages,  Bright & Early brand breakfast beverages,  Bacardi
brand  tropical  fruit mixers  (manufactured  and marketed  under a license from
Bacardi  &  Company  Limited),  and  Hi-C  brand  ready-to-serve  fruit  drinks.
Additionally,  Coca-Cola  Nestle Refreshments,  the Company's joint venture with
Nestle S.A., markets ready-to-drink teas and coffees in certain countries.

     Ultimately,  consumer demand determines the optimal menu of Company product
offerings. Consumer demand often varies from one locale to another, and can also
change over time within a single locale.  Employing the "Think local, act local"
business strategy, and with special focus on brand Coca-Cola,  the Company seeks
to build its existing  brands and, at the same time,  to broaden its  historical
portfolio  of brands,  products  and  services  in order to create  and  satisfy
consumer demand locale by locale.

                                       2



     In 2000,  concentrates  and  syrups for  beverages  bearing  the  trademark
"Coca-Cola" or including the trademark "Coke" accounted for approximately 62% of
the Company's total gallon sales {1}.

     In  2000,  gallon  sales  in  the  United  States  ("U.S.   gallon  sales")
represented  approximately 30% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales. In 2000,
our  Company's  principal  markets  outside the United  States,  based on gallon
sales,  were Mexico,  Brazil,  Japan and Germany,  which together  accounted for
approximately 26% of the Company's worldwide gallon sales.

     Approximately  57%  of  our  Company's  U.S.  gallon  sales  for  2000  was
attributable to sales of beverage  concentrates  and syrups to  approximately 84
authorized  bottler ownership groups in approximately 396 licensed  territories.
Those  bottlers  prepare  and sell  finished  beverages  bearing  the  Company's
trademarks for the food store and vending machine distribution  channels and for
other   distribution   channels   supplying  home  and  immediate   consumption.
Approximately  35% of 2000 U.S. gallon sales was attributable to fountain syrups
sold  to  fountain  retailers  and  to  approximately  525  authorized  fountain
wholesalers, some of whom are authorized bottlers. These fountain wholesalers in
turn sell the syrups or deliver them on the Company's  behalf to restaurants and
other fountain  retailers.  The remaining  approximately  8% of 2000 U.S. gallon
sales was  attributable  to juice and juice-drink  products  sold by The Minute
Maid Company.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc., including its bottling  subsidiaries
and divisions ("Coca-Cola Enterprises"),  accounted for approximately 48% of the
Company's  U.S.  gallon sales in 2000. At December 31, 2000, our Company held an
ownership interest of approximately 40% in Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  which is the
world's  largest  bottler  of  Company  Trademark  Beverages.

     In addition to conducting  its own  independent  advertising  and marketing
activities,  our Company may provide  promotional and marketing  services and/or
funds and consultation to its bottlers and to fountain and bottle/can retailers,
usually but not always on a discretionary  basis. Also on a discretionary basis,
in most cases, the Company may develop and introduce new products,  packages and
equipment  to assist its  bottlers,  fountain  syrup  wholesalers  and  fountain
beverage  retailers.

     The  profitability  of our Company's  business outside the United States is
subject to many factors,  including  governmental trade regulations and monetary
policies,  economic  and  political  conditions  in the  countries in which such
business is  conducted  and the risk of changes in currency  exchange  rates and
regulations.

     BOTTLER'S AGREEMENTS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     Separate contracts ("Bottler's Agreements") between our Company and each of
its bottlers  regarding  the  manufacture  and sale of soft  drinks,  subject to
specified terms and conditions and certain  variations,  generally authorize the
bottler to prepare particular designated Company Trademark Beverages, to package
the same in particular  authorized  containers,  and to distribute  and sell the
same  in (but  generally  only  in) an  identified  territory.  The  bottler  is
obligated to purchase its entire  requirement of  concentrates or syrups for the
designated  Company Trademark  Beverages from the Company or  Company-authorized
suppliers.  Our Company typically agrees to refrain from selling or distributing
or from authorizing  third parties to sell or distribute the designated  Company
Trademark  Beverages  throughout  the  identified  territory  in the  particular
authorized containers; however, the

- ---------------

{1} Our Company  measures sales volume in two ways: (1) gallon sales and (2)
unit cases of finished products.  "Gallon sales" represents the primary business
of the Company and means the sum of (a) the volume of concentrates (converted to
their  equivalents  in gallons of syrup) and syrups  sold by the  Company to its
bottling partners or customers directly or through wholesalers and distributors,
and (b) the gallon sales  equivalent of the juice and juice-drink  products sold
by The Minute Maid  Company.  Most of the  Company's  revenues are based on this
measure of "wholesale" activity. Our Company also measures volume in unit cases.
As used in this  report,  "unit case" means a unit of  measurement  equal to 192
U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage (24 eight-ounce servings); and "unit case
volume" of the Company means the sum of (i) the number of unit cases sold by the
Coca-Cola  bottling system and by our Company to customers,  including  fountain
syrups  sold by our Company to  customers  directly  or through  wholesalers  or
distributors,  and (ii) the volume of juice and juice-drink  products (expressed
in equivalent  unit cases) sold by The Minute Maid Company.  Component (i) above
primarily  includes unit case  equivalents of products  reported as gallon sales
and other key products owned by Coca-Cola bottling system bottlers.  Our Company
believes unit case volume more  accurately  measures the underlying  strength of
its business system because it measures trends at the retail level.

                                       3



Company  typically  reserves  for itself or its  designee  the right (i) to
prepare and package such beverages in such  containers in the territory for sale
outside the territory  and (ii) to prepare,  package,  distribute  and sell such
beverages in the territory in any other manner or form.

     The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and its authorized bottlers in
the United States differ in certain  respects from those in the other  countries
in which Company  Trademark  Beverages are sold. As hereinafter  discussed,  the
principal  differences involve the duration of the agreements;  the inclusion or
exclusion of canned beverage  production  rights;  the inclusion or exclusion of
authorizations to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups; in some cases, the
degree of  flexibility  on the part of the Company to  determine  the pricing of
syrups and concentrates;  and the extent, if any, of the Company's obligation to
provide marketing support.

     OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and
its  authorized  bottlers  outside  the United  States  generally  are of stated
duration,  subject in some cases to possible  extensions or renewals of the term
of the contract.  Generally,  these  contracts are subject to termination by the
Company following the occurrence of certain designated events, including defined
events of default and certain changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

     In certain  parts of the world outside the United  States,  the Company has
not granted  comprehensive  beverage production rights to the bottlers.  In such
instances,  our Company or its designee typically sells canned (or in some cases
bottled) Company  Trademark  Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution
throughout the designated  territory under distribution  agreements,  often on a
non-exclusive basis. A majority of the Bottler's Agreements in force between the
Company  and  bottlers  outside  the  United  States  authorize  the  bottler to
manufacture and distribute  fountain syrups,  usually on a non-exclusive  basis.

     Our Company  generally has complete  flexibility to determine the price and
other terms of sale of  concentrates  and syrups to bottlers  outside the United
States and,  although in its  discretion  it may determine to do so, the Company
typically (but not always) has no obligation under such Bottler's  Agreements to
provide  marketing  support to the bottlers.

     WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.  In the United States,  with certain very limited
exceptions,  the Bottler's  Agreements  for  Coca-Cola  and other  cola-flavored
beverages have no stated expiration date and the contracts for other flavors are
of stated duration,  subject to bottler renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements
in  the  United   States  are  subject  to   termination   by  the  Company  for
nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default which
may vary from contract to contract. The hereinafter described "1987 Contract" is
terminable by the Company upon the occurrence of certain events  including:  (1)
the  bottler's  insolvency,  dissolution,  receivership  or the  like;  (2)  any
disposition by the bottler or any of its  subsidiaries of any voting  securities
of any bottler subsidiary  without the consent of the Company;  (3) any material
breach of any obligation of the bottler under the 1987  Contract;  or (4) except
in the case of certain  bottlers,  if a person or affiliated  group  acquires or
obtains any right to acquire beneficial  ownership of more than 10% of any class
or series of voting  securities  of the  bottler  without  authorization  by the
Company.

     Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements,  bottlers in the United States
are authorized to  manufacture  and distribute  Company  Trademark  Beverages in
bottles and cans,  but generally  are not  authorized  to  manufacture  fountain
syrups.   Rather,  our  Company   manufactures  and  sells  fountain  syrups  to
approximately 525 authorized fountain wholesalers  (including certain authorized
bottlers) and some fountain  retailers.  The wholesalers in turn sell the syrups
or deliver them on the Company's behalf to restaurants and other retailers.  The
wholesaler  typically  acts pursuant to a  non-exclusive  letter of  appointment
which neither  restricts  the pricing of fountain  syrups by our Company nor the
territory in which the wholesaler may resell in the United States.

     In the United  States,  the form of Bottler's  Agreement for  cola-flavored
soft drinks that covers the largest amount of U.S. volume (the "1987  Contract")
gives the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of
sale of soft drink  concentrates and syrups for cola-flavored  Company Trademark
Beverages   ("Coca-Cola   Trademark  Beverages")  and  other  Company  Trademark
Beverages.   Bottlers   operating   under  the  1987   Contract   accounted  for
approximately  82% of our Company's total United States gallon sales for bottled
and canned  beverages,  excluding juice and  juice-drink  products of The Minute
Maid Company,  ("U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales") in 2000. Certain other forms of
the U.S. Bottler's Agreement, entered into prior to 1987, provide for soft drink
concentrates or syrups for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages to be priced
pursuant to a stated  formula.  The

                                       4


<PAGE>
oldest  such  form of  contract,  applicable  to  bottlers  accounting  for
approximately 1% of U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales in 2000,  provides for a fixed
price for  Coca-Cola  syrup  used in  bottles  and cans,  subject  to  quarterly
adjustments to reflect changes in the quoted price of sugar. Bottlers accounting
for the remaining approximately 17% of U.S. bottle/can gallon sales in 2000 have
contracts  for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages  with  pricing  formulas
generally  providing for a baseline price that may be adjusted  periodically  by
the  Company,  up to a  maximum  indexed  ceiling  price,  and that is  adjusted
quarterly  based  upon  changes  in  certain  sugar  or  sweetener   prices,  as
applicable.

     Standard  contracts  with  bottlers  in the  United  States for the sale of
concentrates  and syrups for non-cola-flavored soft drinks in bottles and cans
permit flexible pricing by the Company.

     Under the 1987 Contract,  our Company has no obligation to participate with
bottlers  in  expenditures  for  advertising  and  marketing,  but  may,  at its
discretion,  contribute  toward such  expenditures and undertake  independent or
cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements
that pre-date the 1987 Contract  impose  certain  marketing  obligations  on the
Company with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.


     SIGNIFICANT EQUITY  INVESTMENTS AND COMPANY BOTTLING  OPERATIONS

     Our Company maintains business  relationships with three types of bottlers:
(1)  independently  owned  bottlers,  in  which  the  Company  has no  ownership
interest;   (2)   bottlers  in  which  the  Company  has   invested  and  has  a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest;  and (3)  bottlers in which the Company has
invested and has a controlling ownership interest. In 2000,  independently owned
bottling operations produced and distributed  approximately 25% of the Company's
worldwide unit case volume; cost or equity method investee bottlers in which the
Company  owns a  noncontrolling  ownership  interest  produced  and  distributed
approximately  59% of such  worldwide  unit  case  volume;  and  controlled  and
consolidated  bottling  and  fountain  operations,  including  The  Minute  Maid
Company,  produced and distributed approximately 16% of such worldwide unit case
volume.

     Our Company makes equity  investments in selected bottling  operations with
the  intention  of  maximizing  the  strength and  efficiency  of the  Coca-Cola
business  system's  production,  distribution  and marketing  systems around the
world.  These  investments  are  intended  to result in  increases  in unit case
volume,  net revenues and profits at the bottler  level,  which in turn generate
increased gallon sales for the Company's concentrate business. When this occurs,
both the Company  and the  bottlers  benefit  from  long-term  growth in volume,
improved cash flows and increased share-owner value.

     The level of our Company's  investment  generally  depends on the bottler's
capital  structure  and its available  resources at the time of the  investment.
Historically,  in certain situations,  the Company has viewed it as advantageous
to  acquire a  controlling  interest  in a  bottling  operation.  Owning  such a
controlling  interest has allowed the Company to  compensate  for limited  local
resources  and has  enabled the  Company to help focus the  bottler's  sales and
marketing  programs and assist in the development of the bottler's  business and
information systems and the establishment of appropriate capital structures.  In
separate  transactions  during the first half of 2000, our Company purchased the
entire  equity  interest  in  two  bottlers  in  Brazil,  Companhia  Mineira  de
Refrescos,  S.A., and Refrigerantes Minas Gerais Limitada.  In October 2000, the
Company purchased a 58% equity interest in Paraguay Refrescos S.A. ("Paresa"), a
bottler  located in Paraguay.  This interest in Paresa was increased from 58% to
approximately  95% as a result of  additional  purchases of Paresa shares by our
Company in January 2001.

     In line with its  long-term  bottling  strategy,  our Company  periodically
considers  options for reducing its  ownership  interest in a bottler.  One such
option  is to  combine  the  Company's  bottling  interests  with  the  bottling
interests of others to form strategic business  alliances.  Another option is to
sell the  Company's  interest in a bottling  operation  to one of the  Company's
equity investee  bottlers.  In both of these  situations,  our Company continues
participating  in the bottler's  results of operations  through its share of the
equity investee's earnings or losses.

     In  cases  where  the   Company's   investments   in   bottlers   represent
noncontrolling  interests,  our Company's  intention is to provide expertise and
resources to strengthen  those  businesses.  During 2000,  the Company and China
National Oils and Foodstuffs Imports/Exports  Corporation ("COFCO") entered into
the COFCO  Bottling  Joint  Venture in China,  completion of which is subject to
satisfaction  of  certain  conditions  as of the date of this  report.  COFCO is
contributing  to the joint venture its minority  equity  interests in 11 Chinese
bottlers.  Our  Company is

                                       5


<PAGE>
contributing  its equity  interests  in two Chinese  bottlers  plus cash in
exchange for a 35% equity interest in the joint venture.

     Our Company  views certain  bottling  operations in which the Company has a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest as key or anchor bottlers due to their level
of responsibility and performance.  The strong commitment of both key and anchor
bottlers  to their own  profitable  volume  growth  helps our  Company  meet its
strategic  goals  and  furthers  the  interests  of  its  worldwide  production,
distribution  and  marketing  systems.  These  bottlers  tend  to be  large  and
geographically diverse, with strong financial resources for long-term investment
and strong  management  resources.  These  bottlers  give the Company  strategic
business  partners on every major  continent.  During the third quarter of 2000,
Coca-Cola Beverages plc and Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. merged,  resulting in
a decrease of our Company's equity ownership interest from  approximately  50.5%
of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  plc  to  approximately  24% of  the  combined  entity,
Coca-Cola HBC S.A.

     Our  Company  has  substantial   equity   positions  in   approximately  51
unconsolidated  bottling,  canning and distribution  operations for its products
worldwide,  including bottlers  representing  approximately 54% of the Company's
total U.S. unit case volume in 2000.  Of these,  significant  investee  bottlers
accounted for by the equity method include the following:

     COCA-COLA  ENTERPRISES INC. Our Company's  ownership  interest in Coca-Cola
Enterprises was approximately 40% at December 31, 2000. Coca-Cola Enterprises is
the world's largest  bottler of the Company's  beverage  products.  In 2000, net
sales of concentrates  and syrups by the Company to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were
approximately $3.5 billion,  or approximately 17% of our Company's net operating
revenues.  Coca-Cola Enterprises also purchases high fructose corn syrup through
the  Company;  however,  related  collections  from  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  and
payments to suppliers are not included in the Company's consolidated  statements
of income.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  estimates  that the  territories in which it
markets beverage products to retailers (which include portions of 46 states, the
District  of  Columbia,   the  U.S.  Virgin  Islands,   Canada,  Great  Britain,
continental  France,  the Netherlands,  Luxembourg,  Belgium and Monaco) contain
approximately  69% of the United  States  population,  97% of the  population of
Canada,  and 100% of the populations of Great Britain,  continental  France, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Monaco.

     Excluding products in post-mix (fountain) form, in 2000,  approximately 62%
of the unit  case  volume  of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages, approximately 30% of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark
Beverages, and approximately 8% of its unit case volume was beverage products of
other  companies.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  net sales of beverage  products were
approximately $14.8 billion in 2000.

     COCA-COLA HBC S.A. (CCHBC).  At December 31, 2000, our Company's  ownership
interest in CCHBC was  approximately  24%.  CCHBC has bottling and  distribution
rights,  through  direct  ownership  or joint  ventures,  in  Armenia,  Austria,
Belarus, Bosnia, Bulgaria,  Croatia, Czech Republic,  Greece, Hungary,  Northern
Ireland,  Republic of  Ireland,  Italy,  Macedonia,  Moldova,  Nigeria,  Poland,
Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland,  Ukraine and Yugoslavia. CCHBC
estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage  products  contain
approximately  67% of the  population of Italy,  31% of the population of Russia
and 100% of the  populations of the other  countries  named above in which CCHBC
has bottling and distribution rights.

     In 2000, CCHBCs net sales of beverage products were approximately  U.S.$2.2
billion.  In  2000,  approximately  55% of the unit  case  volume  of CCHBC  was
Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages,  approximately  37% of its unit case volume was
other Company  Trademark  Beverages and approximately 8% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of CCHBC or other companies.

     COCA-COLA  AMATIL LIMITED  ("COCA-COLA  AMATIL" OR "CCA").  At December 31,
2000, our Company's  ownership  interest in Coca-Cola  Amatil was  approximately
38%.  Coca-Cola Amatil is the largest bottler of the Company's beverage products
in Australia  and also has  bottling and  distribution  rights,  through  direct
ownership or joint ventures, in New Zealand, Fiji, Papua New Guinea,  Indonesia,
the Philippines and South Korea. Coca-Cola Amatil estimates that the territories
in  which  it  markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  99%  of  the
population of Australia,  100% of the  populations of New Zealand,  Fiji,  South
Korea and the Philippines,  83% of the population of Papua New Guinea and 97% of
the population of Indonesia.


                                       6


     In  2000,   Coca-Cola   Amatil's  net  sales  of  beverage   products  were
approximately  U.S.$2.4  billion.  In 2000,  approximately  66% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola Amatil was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages,  approximately 25%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages,  approximately 5%
of  its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  Coca-Cola  Amatil  and
approximately  4% of its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  other
companies.

     PANAMERICAN BEVERAGES, INC. ("PANAMCO").  At December 31, 2000, our Company
owned an equity interest of approximately 24% in Panamco,  a Panamanian  holding
company with bottling  subsidiaries  operating in a substantial  part of central
Mexico (excluding  Mexico City),  greater Sao Paulo, Campinas, Santos and Matto
Grosso do Sul, Brazil, central Guatemala,  most of Colombia,  and all of Costa
Rica,  Venezuela and Nicaragua.  Panamco estimates that the territories in which
it markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  19% of the population of
Mexico, 16% of the population of Brazil, 94% of the population of Colombia,  47%
of the  population  of  Guatemala  and 100% of the  populations  of Costa  Rica,
Venezuela and Nicaragua.

     In 2000,  Panamco's  net  sales of  beverage  products  were  approximately
U.S.$2.6 billion. In 2000,  approximately 51% of the unit case volume of Panamco
was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages, approximately 22% of its unit case volume was
other Company Trademark  Beverages and approximately 27% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of Panamco or other companies.

     COCA-COLA FEMSA, S.A. DE C.V.  ("COCA-COLA  FEMSA").  At December 31, 2000,
our Company owned a 30% equity  interest in Coca-Cola  FEMSA, a Mexican  holding
company  with  bottling   subsidiaries   in  the  Valley  of  Mexico,   Mexico's
southeastern  region  and  Greater  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina.  Coca-Cola  FEMSA
estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage  products  contain
approximately  30% of the  population  of Mexico  and  approximately  31% of the
population of Argentina.

     In  2000,   Coca-Cola   FEMSA's  net  sales  of  beverage   products   were
approximately  U.S.$1.7  billion.  In 2000,  approximately  76% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA was Coca-Cola Trademark  Beverages,  approximately 23%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages, and approximately
1% of its unit case volume was beverage products of other companies.

     OTHER  INTERESTS.  Under the  terms of the  Coca-Cola  Nestle  Refreshments
("CCNR")  joint  venture   involving  our  Company,   Nestle  S.A.  and  certain
subsidiaries  of Nestle S.A.,  the Company  manages  CCNR's  ready-to-drink  tea
business and Nestle S.A.  manages CCNR's  ready-to-drink  coffee  business.  Our
Company owns a 50% equity  interest in the joint  venture,  which  currently has
sales in the United States and approximately 34 other countries.

     On January 30, 2001, our Company and Nestle S.A. announced plans to further
develop the joint venture,  which will be renamed  Beverage  Partners  Worldwide
("BPW").  Under the  proposed  restructuring,  which is subject to  approval  by
regulatory  authorities,  BPW will function as an entrepreneurial unit dedicated
to tapping the growth  potential  of emerging  beverage  segments,  particularly
ready-to-drink  coffee, teas and certain beverages with a healthful positioning.
BPW will be based in Zurich, Switzerland.

     Brands already within the joint venture  include Nestea and Nescafe for the
ready-to-drink  categories.  In  addition,  our Company will add the Planet Java
coffee  business and the Yang Guang tea businesses,  among others,  while Nestle
will be  contributing  its Belte tea business.  BPW also will focus on expanding
its geographical reach, seeking to enter new markets (excluding Japan) with both
new and existing products.


OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
- ------------------
     In January 2000, our Company announced a major  organizational  realignment
(the  "Realignment")  intended to put more  responsibility,  accountability  and
resources in the hands of local business units of the Company located around the
world. Fully implemented during calendar year 2000, the Realignment  reduced the
Company's  workforce  while  transferring  responsibilities  from  corporate  to
revenue-generating  operating units. Under the Realignment,  approximately 5,200
employees  were separated from the Company,  of which  approximately  1,750 were
based  within  the  United  States.  The  total  workforce  reduction  under the
Realignment  included  employees  separated  from  the  Company  as  well as the
elimination of open positions and contract labor.


                                       7



     Following the structural  changes,  roles and  responsibilities  within our
Company were redefined and certain  corporate  activities were  outsourced.  The
Company's corporate headquarters retained  responsibility for setting policy and
strategy  for the  Company as a whole,  while the  Company's  revenue-generating
units generally assumed all other responsibilities.

   In  February  2001,  our Company  and The  Procter & Gamble  Company  ("P&G")
announced  plans  pursuant  to a  non-binding  letter  of  intent  to  create  a
stand-alone  enterprise focused on developing and marketing juices,  juice-based
beverages and salted  snacks on a global basis.  Under the terms of the proposed
transaction,  our  Company  and  P&G  each  will  own  50%  of  the  stand-alone
enterprise, which will be named at a later date. Our Company will contribute its
juice beverages  business,  and P&G will contribute its juice beverages business
and its salted snack products business. The transaction has been approved by the
boards  of  directors  of both  companies,  and the  stand-alone  enterprise  is
expected to begin operations  following regulatory approvals and satisfaction of
certain other conditions. Until then, the two companies will continue to operate
independently.

     In  February  2001,  our Company  announced  it had  reached  agreement  in
principle with Coca-Cola Amatil and San Miguel Corporation ("SMC") regarding the
ownership and management of bottling  operations in the  Philippines.  Under the
agreement, CCA will sell Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines,  Inc. ("CCBPI") to SMC,
which will acquire a 65% equity interest, and to the Company, which will acquire
a 35% equity interest,  in a share,  cash and debt transaction  valued at A$2.25
billion  (U.S.$1.24   billion).   The  consideration  for  CCBPI  comprises  the
cancellation  of  approximately  149  million CCA shares held by our Company and
219.4  million  CCA  shares  held by SMC at a price of  A$4.75  (U.S.$2.62)  and
additional  consideration  of  approximately  A$495 million  (U.S.$273  million)
comprising  cash and debt.  The number of CCA shares  held by our  Company to be
cancelled and the cash and debt component may vary depending on future movements
of the  AUD/PHP  exchange  rate.  Completion  of the  transaction  is subject to
certain conditions, including approval by CCA's shareholders not associated with
our Company or SMC.

     In February 2001,  our Company  reached an agreement with Carlsberg A/S for
the  dissolution of  Coca-Cola Nordic  Beverages  (CCNB),  a joint venture
anchor  bottler  which  presently is 51%-owned by Carlsberg and 49%-owned by the
Company.  CCNB  currently has bottling  operations in Sweden,  Norway,  Denmark,
Finland,  and  Iceland.  Under the terms of the  agreement,  subject to required
regulatory approvals, our Company will acquire CCNB's Sweden and Norway bottling
operations,  which will  increase the Company's  ownership in those  bottlers to
100%.  Carlsberg will acquire CCNB's  Denmark and Finland  bottling  operations,
which will  increase  Carlsberg's  ownership in those  bottlers to 100%.  CCNB's
Iceland bottling operation will be sold to a third-party group of investors.  It
is anticipated that these bottler ownership  restructurings will be completed by
the end of second quarter,  2001. The CCNB holding company will  subsequently be
dissolved.


SEASONALITY
- -----------
     Sales of ready-to-drink  nonalcoholic beverages are somewhat seasonal, with
the second and third calendar quarters  accounting for the highest sales volumes
in the Northern Hemisphere. The volume of sales in the beverages business may be
affected by weather conditions.


COMPETITION
- -----------
     Our  Company  competes  in  the  nonalcoholic   beverages  segment  of  the
commercial beverages industry. That segment is highly competitive, consisting of
numerous firms. These include firms that compete,  like the Company, in multiple
geographical  areas as well as  firms  that are  primarily  local in  operation.
Competitive  products include  carbonates,  packaged water,  juices and nectars,
fruit drinks and dilutables  (including syrups and powdered drinks),  sports and
energy drinks,  coffee and tea, still drinks and other  beverages.  Nonalcoholic
beverages are sold to consumers in both  ready-to-drink  and  not-ready-to-drink
form.

     Most of our Company's  beverages  business  currently is in soft drinks, as
that term is defined in this report.  The soft drink business,  which is part of
the nonalcoholic beverages segment, is itself highly competitive. Our Company is
the leading seller of soft drink concentrates and syrups in the world.  Numerous
firms,  however,  compete in that  business.  These consist of a range of firms,
from local to  international,  that  compete  against  the  Company in  numerous
geographical areas.

                                       8



     In many parts of the world in which our Company does  business,  demand for
soft drinks is growing at the expense of other commercial beverages. Competitive
factors with respect to the Company's business include pricing,  advertising and
sales promotion programs, product innovation, increased efficiency in production
techniques,  the  introduction  of new  packaging,  new vending  and  dispensing
equipment and brand and trademark development and protection.


RAW MATERIALS
- -------------
     The principal  raw material  used by our  Company's  business in the United
States is high fructose  corn syrup,  a form of sugar,  which is available  from
numerous  domestic  sources and is  historically  subject to fluctuations in its
market price. The principal raw material used by the Company's  business outside
the  United  States  is  sucrose.  Our  Company  has  a  specialized   sweetener
procurement  staff and has not  experienced  any  difficulties  in obtaining its
requirements.  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company has
authorized  the use of high fructose corn syrup in syrup for Coca-Cola and other
Company  Trademark  Beverages  for  use in  both  fountain  syrup  and  finished
beverages in bottles and cans.

     Generally,  raw  materials  utilized  by our  Company in its  business  are
readily available from numerous sources.  However,  aspartame,  which is usually
used alone or in combination  with either  saccharin or acesulfame  potassium in
the Company's  low-calorie  soft drink products,  is currently  purchased by the
Company  primarily  from The  NutraSweet  Company  and from  Holland  Sweetener.
Acesulfame potassium is currently purchased from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties
& Food Ingredients GmbH.

     With  regard to juice and  juice-drink  products,  the citrus  industry  is
subject to the variability of weather conditions,  in particular the possibility
of  freezes  in central  Florida,  which may  result in higher  prices and lower
consumer demand for orange juice  throughout the industry.  Due to our Company's
long-standing  relationship  with a supplier of  high-quality  Brazilian  orange
juice  concentrate,  the  supply of juice  available  that  meets the  Company's
standards is normally adequate to meet demand.


PATENTS, TRADE SECRETS, TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS
- -------------------------------------------------
     Our Company is the owner of numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets,
as well as substantial know-how and technology (herein collectively  referred to
as  "technology"),  relating  to  its  products  and  the  processes  for  their
production,  the packages  used for its  products,  the design and  operation of
various  processes  and  equipment  used in its  business  and  certain  quality
assurance  and  financial  software.  Some  of the  technology  is  licensed  to
suppliers  and other  parties.  The  Company's  soft  drink  and other  beverage
formulae are among the important trade secrets of the Company.

     Our  Company  owns  numerous  trademarks  which are very  important  to its
business. Depending upon the jurisdiction,  trademarks are valid as long as they
are in use and/or their  registrations are properly maintained and they have not
been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be
renewed  indefinitely  as long as the trademarks are in use. The majority of our
Company's  trademark license agreements are included in the Company's  Bottler's
Agreements.  The  Company  has  registered  and  licenses  the  right to use its
trademarks  in  conjunction  with  certain  merchandise  other than soft drinks.


GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
- -----------------------
     The production,  distribution  and sale in the United States of many of the
Company's  products are subject to the Federal Food,  Drug and Cosmetic Act; the
Occupational  Safety  and Health  Act;  the Lanham  Act;  various  environmental
statutes;  and various other federal,  state and local statutes and  regulations
applicable  to  the  production,   transportation,  sale,  safety,  advertising,
labeling and ingredients of such products.

     A California  law requires  that a specific  warning  appear on any product
that  contains  a  component  listed by the State as having  been found to cause
cancer or birth defects.  The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the
possibility  of having to provide  warnings  on their  products  because the law
recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning
is not  required.  Consequently,  even trace  amounts of listed  components  can
expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels.  Products containing
listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to
the product  solely by a municipal  water supply are


                                       9



generally  exempt from the warning  requirement.  While no Company beverage
products are currently  required to display warnings under this law, our Company
is unable to predict  whether an important  component of a Company product might
be added to the  California  list in the  future.  Our Company is also unable to
predict  whether or to what extent a warning under this law would have an impact
on costs or sales of Company beverage products.

     Bottlers of the Company's beverage products presently offer non-refillable,
recyclable  containers  in all areas of the United  States and  Canada.  Some of
these  bottlers also offer  refillable  containers,  which are also  recyclable.
Measures have been enacted in various localities and states which require that a
deposit be charged for certain non-refillable beverage containers.  The precise
requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product
stewardship  proposals have been  introduced in states and localities and in the
Congress,  and the Company  anticipates that similar  legislation or regulations
may be proposed in the future at the local,  state and federal  levels,  both in
the United States and elsewhere.

     All of our  Company's  facilities  in the  United  States  are  subject  to
federal,  state and local  environmental  laws and regulations.  Compliance with
these provisions has not had, and the Company does not expect such compliance to
have, any material adverse effect upon our Company's capital  expenditures,  net
income or competitive position.


EMPLOYEES
- ---------
     As of December 31, 2000, our Company employed approximately 36,900 persons,
compared  to  approximately  37,400  at the end of  1999.  The  differential  is
primarily  due to  the  organizational  Realignment,  offset  by  the  Company's
acquisition of certain bottlers in Latin America and the final  consolidation of
our bottler in Southeast Asia. At the end of 2000,  approximately  9,130 Company
employees were located in the United States. Our Company,  through its divisions
and subsidiaries,  has entered into numerous collective  bargaining  agreements,
and the Company has no reason to believe it will not be able to renegotiate  any
such agreements on satisfactory  terms.  The Company believes that its relations
with its employees are generally satisfactory.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
- ------------------
     Our Company's worldwide headquarters is located on a 35-acre office complex
in Atlanta,  Georgia. The complex includes the approximately 621,000 square foot
headquarters  building,  the  approximately  870,000  square foot  Coca-Cola USA
building and the  approximately  264,000 square foot Coca-Cola  Plaza  building.
Also located in the complex are several other buildings, including the technical
and engineering facilities,  learning center and the Company's Reception Center.
The Company  leases  approximately  278,000  square feet of office  space at Ten
Peachtree Place, Atlanta, Georgia, owned by a joint venture of which an indirect
subsidiary  of the Company is a partner;  the Company plans to vacate this space
prior to expiration of the lease in November 2001. In the first quarter of 2001,
the Company began leasing  approximately  250,000 square feet of office space at
10 Glenlake  Parkway,  Atlanta,  Georgia,  as the main office for the  Company's
Coca-Cola Fountain business unit, which is responsible for fountain sales in the
United States. In addition, the Company leases approximately 150,000 square feet
of office space at Northridge  Business  Park,  Dunwoody,  Georgia,  for some of
Coca-Cola Fountain's  operations.  The Company has facilities for administrative
operations,   manufacturing,   processing,   packaging,   packing,  storage  and
warehousing throughout the United States.

     Our Company  owns and  operates 32 principal  beverage  concentrate  and/or
syrup  manufacturing  plants located throughout the world. The Company currently
owns or holds a majority  interest in 24 operations  with 71 principal  beverage
bottling and canning plants located outside the United States.

     The Minute Maid Company, whose business headquarters is located in Houston,
Texas,  occupies its own office building,  which contains  approximately 330,000
square  feet.  The Minute Maid  Company  operates  eight  production  facilities
throughout  the  United  States and  Canada  and  utilizes a system of  contract
packers to produce  and  distribute  certain  products in areas where The Minute
Maid Company does not have its own manufacturing  centers or during periods when
it experiences shortfalls in manufacturing capacity.

     Our  Company  owns  or  leases   additional   real   estate,   including  a
Company-owned  office and retail  building at 711 Fifth Avenue in New York,  New
York and approximately 315,000 square feet of Company-owned office and technical
space in  Brussels,  Belgium.  Additional  owned or leased real  estate  located
throughout  the world is used

                                       10



by  the  Company  as  office  space,  for  bottling,  warehouse  or  retail
operations or, in the case of some owned property, is leased to others.

     Management  believes that the facilities for the production of its products
are suitable and adequate  for the  business  conducted  therein,  that they are
being  appropriately  utilized in line with past  experience  and that they have
sufficient  production capacity for their present intended purposes.  The extent
of  utilization  of such  facilities  varies based upon the seasonal  demand for
product.  While it is not  possible to measure  with any degree of  certainty or
uniformity  the   productive   capacity  and  extent  of  utilization  of  these
facilities,  management  believes that additional  production can be obtained at
the existing  facilities by the addition of personnel and capital equipment and,
in some  facilities,  the  addition of shifts of  personnel or expansion of such
facilities.  Our Company continuously  reviews its anticipated  requirements for
facilities  and,  on the basis of that  review,  may from  time to time  acquire
additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- -------------------------

     On January 30, 1997, the Brazilian  Federal  Revenue Service issued Notices
of  Assessment  to  Recofarma  Industrias  do Amazonas  Ltda.  ("Recofarma"), an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,  for the period from January 1,
1992 to February 28, 1994. The  assessments  alleged that Recofarma  should have
paid a Brazilian excise tax on intra-company  transfers of product  manufactured
at its Manaus  plant to its  warehouse  in Rio de Janeiro.  Assessments  of tax,
interest  and  penalties  totaled  approximately  U.S.  $302  million  as of the
assessment  date  (based on  exchange  rates as of  February 4, 2000) and accrue
interest from the assessment date. The transfer of product from the plant to the
warehouse,  which was  discontinued  in  February  1994,  was the  subject  of a
favorable  advance ruling issued by the Federal Revenue Service on September 24,
1990. In the Company's opinion, the ruling has continuing effect and Recofarma's
operations  conformed with the ruling. On March 3, 1997, Recofarma filed appeals
with the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service contesting the assessments.

     On September 30, 1997, the Rio de Janeiro  Branch of the Brazilian  Federal
Revenue Service dismissed the assessments against Recofarma.  This determination
was subject to an automatic ex officio  appeal  ("recurso  ex-officio") on the
Federal Revenue Service's behalf to the Taxpayers Council in Brazilia. On August
16, 2000, the case was heard by the Taxpayers Council, which unanimously decided
in Recofarma's  favor.  The Federal  Revenue Service did not appeal the decision
within the required  period and the decision is therefore  final in  Recofarma's
favor.

     On October 27, 2000, a class action  lawsuit was filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern  District of Georgia  alleging that the Company,
M.  Douglas  Ivester,  Jack L. Stahl and James E.  Chestnut  violated  antifraud
provisions  of the  federal  securities  laws by  making  misrepresentations  or
material omissions relating to the Companys financial condition and prospects in
late 1999 and early  2000 (the  Carpenters  Health &  Welfare  Fund  Action).  A
second,  largely  identical  lawsuit  was filed in the same court on November 9,
2000 (the  LaValla  Action).  The  Complaints  allege  that the  Company and the
individual  named  officers:  (1) forced certain  Coca-Cola  system  bottlers to
accept  excessive,  unwanted and unneeded sales of concentrate  during the third
and fourth quarters of 1999, thus creating a misleading  sense of improvement in
our Companys  performance in those quarters;  (2) failed to write down the value
of impaired  assets in Russia,  Japan and  elsewhere  on a timely  basis,  again
resulting in the  presentation of misleading  interim  financial  results in the
third and fourth  quarters of 1999; and (3)  misrepresented  the reasons for Mr.
Ivesters  departure  from  the  Company  and  then  misleadingly  reassured  the
financial community that there would be no changes in the Companys core business
strategy  or  financial  outlook   following  that  departure.   Damages  in  an
unspecified amount are sought in both Complaints.

     On January 8, 2001,  an order was entered by Judge  Willis B. Hunt,  Jr. of
the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern   District  of  Georgia
consolidating  the two cases for all  purposes.  Judge  Hunt  also  ordered  the
plaintiffs  to file a  Consolidated  Amended  Complaint.  Our  Companys  initial
response to these lawsuits will be due 60 days after service of the Consolidated
Amended  Complaint.  The Company  believes it has meritorious  legal and factual
defenses and intends to defend the consolidated action vigorously.

     The Company is involved in various other legal  proceedings.  Management of
the Company  believes  that any  liability  to the Company  which may arise as a
result of these proceedings,  including the proceedings  specifically  discussed
above, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.


                                       11



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- -----------------------------------------------------------

     Not applicable.


ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
- -----------------------------------------

The following are the executive officers of our Company:

     Douglas  N.  Daft,  57, is  Chairman  of the Board of  Directors  and Chief
Executive  Officer of the  Company.  In November  1984,  Mr. Daft was  appointed
President of the Central  Pacific  Division.  In October  1987, he was appointed
Senior Vice President of the Pacific Group of the International Business Sector.
In December 1988, he was named President of Coca-Cola  (Japan) Company,  Limited
and  President  of the North  Pacific  Division  of the  International  Business
Sector.  Effective  1991 he was elected Senior Vice President of the Company and
named President of the Pacific Group of the  International  Business Sector.  He
was  appointed  President  of the Middle and Far East Group in January  1995 and
served  in  that  capacity  until  October  1999  when  he  was  given  expanded
responsibilities  for the  Middle and Far East  Group,  the  Africa  Group,  the
Schweppes  Beverages  Division and the Japan Division.  He was elected President
and Chief Operating  Officer and a Director of the Company in December 1999. Mr.
Daft was elected to his current positions in February 2000.

     James E. Chestnut,  50, is Executive Vice President,  Operations Support of
the Company.  Mr. Chestnut joined the Company in 1972 in London. In 1984, he was
named Finance Manager for the Philippine Region in Manila and, in 1987,  Manager
of  International  Treasury  Services,  Pacific Group, in Atlanta.  He was named
Finance  Manager for the North Pacific  Division of the  International  Business
Sector in 1989 before being elected Vice President and Controller of the Company
in 1993. He was elected  Senior Vice  President and Chief  Financial  Officer in
July 1994 and was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Support in October
1999. Mr. Chestnut was elected Executive Vice President in January 2000.

     Charles S. Frenette,  48, is Executive  Vice President of the Company.  Mr.
Frenette joined the Company in 1974. In 1983, he was appointed Vice President of
Coca-Cola  USA. In 1986,  he was  appointed  Senior Vice  President  and General
Manager of Coca-Cola USA Fountain.  In 1992,  he was  appointed  Executive  Vice
President,  Operations,  of Coca-Cola  USA. He was elected Vice President of the
Company in 1995 and was appointed  President of the Southern  Africa Division in
1996.  He was  elected  Senior Vice  President  of the Company in April 1998 and
became Chief Marketing  Officer in May 1998. Mr. Frenette was elected  Executive
Vice President of the Company and appointed  President of the Europe and Eurasia
Group in January  2000.  On March 4, 2001,  Mr.  Frenette  was named head of the
newly created Europe/Africa strategic business unit of the Company.

     Joseph R. Gladden, Jr., 58, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
of the Company. In October 1985, Mr. Gladden was elected Vice President.  He was
named Deputy  General  Counsel in October 1987 and served in that capacity until
he was elected Vice President and General  Counsel in April 1990. He was elected
Senior Vice  President  in April 1991 and  Executive  Vice  President in January
2000. On January 24, 2001, Mr. Gladden announced his plans to resign his offices
effective  April 18, 2001.

     Carl Ware,  57, is Executive  Vice  President of the Company and in January
2000  was   appointed   head  of  the  Company's   Global  Public   Affairs  and
Administration division. In 1979, Mr. Ware was appointed Vice President, Special
Markets,  Coca-Cola USA. In March 1982, he was appointed Vice  President,  Urban
Affairs,  of the Company.  He was elected  Senior Vice  President  and Director,
Corporate  External  Affairs in 1986 and became  Deputy  Group  President of the
Northeast Europe/Africa Group of the International Business Sector in July 1991.
In January 1993 he was  appointed  President of the Africa  Group.  Mr. Ware was
elected Executive Vice President in January 2000.

     Gary P. Fayard, 48, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company.  Mr.  Fayard joined the Company in April 1994. In July 1994, he was
elected Vice President and Controller.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Fayard
was a partner with Ernst & Young. Mr. Fayard was elected to his current position
in December 1999.


                                       12



     Stephen C. Jones,  45, is Senior  Vice  President  and in January  2000 was
appointed Chief  Marketing  Officer of the Company.  Mr. Jones joined  Coca-Cola
Canada in 1986 as Brand Manager for Sprite.  In 1988, he joined Coca-Cola USA as
Brand Manager for diet Coke and Sprite.  Mr. Jones was named  Marketing  Manager
for  Coca-Cola  Great  Britain in 1990 and was  promoted  to  Regional  Manager,
Coca-Cola  Great  Britain in 1991 and to  Marketing  Director,  Coca-Cola  Great
Britain and Ireland  Division in 1992.  In 1994,  he was  appointed  Senior Vice
President,  Consumer Marketing for Coca-Cola (Japan) Co., Ltd. ("CCJC"), and was
named Deputy  Division  Manager and Executive Vice President of CCJC in 1997. He
was appointed  President and Chief Executive  Officer of The Minute Maid Company
in October 1999. Mr. Jones was elected to his current position in January 2000.

     Alexander  R.C.  Allan,  56, is Senior Vice  President of the Company.  Mr.
Allan joined  Coca-Cola  Bottling Company of Johannesburg in 1968 as an Internal
Auditor.  He was  appointed  the financial  Controller  for the Southern  Africa
Division of  The Coca-Cola Company  in 1978 and Assistant  Division  Manager and
Finance  Manager of the Southern and Central Africa Division in 1986. In January
1993, he was appointed  President of the Middle East  Division  (renamed  Middle
East & North Africa Division in 1998). Mr. Allan was appointed  President of the
Middle & Far East Group in October 1999 and was elected to his current  position
in  December  1999.  On March 4,  2001,  Mr.  Allan was named  head of the newly
created Asia strategic business unit of the Company.

     Jeffrey T. Dunn,  43, is Senior Vice  President  of the  Company.  Mr. Dunn
joined  the  Company  in 1981.  From 1985 to 1990,  Mr.  Dunn  served in various
positions in Coca-Cola USA Fountain. In 1990, Mr. Dunn was named Vice President,
Presence  Marketing,  Coca-Cola USA. In 1994, he rejoined Coca-Cola USA Fountain
as Vice President,  Marketing and in May 1996, was named Vice  President,  Field
Sales and Marketing. He was named Vice President and General Manager,  Coca-Cola
USA Fountain in February 1998, and Senior Vice President, Coca-Cola USA Fountain
in June 1998. In January 2000,  Mr. Dunn was appointed  Senior Vice President of
The Coca-Cola North America Marketing  Division.  Mr. Dunn was elected to Senior
Vice  President  of the  Company and  President  of the North  America  Group in
October  2000.  On March 4, 2001,  Mr. Dunn was named head of the newly  created
Americas strategic business unit of the Company.

     Steven J. Heyer, 48, was named head of the newly created Coca-Cola Ventures
strategic  business unit of the Company on March 7, 2001. On April 18, 2001, Mr.
Heyer will be  considered  for  election  as  Executive  Vice  President  of the
Company. Mr. Heyer joins our Company from AOL Time Warner, where he served since
1996 as President and Chief  Operating  Officer of Turner  Broadcasting  System,
Inc.  Mr. Heyer  joined TBS,  Inc. in 1994 as  President of Turner  Broadcasting
Sales,  Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Heyer was President and Chief Operating  Officer
of Young & Rubicam Advertising Worldwide, as well as Executive Vice President of
Young & Rubicam, Inc.

     Deval L. Patrick, 45. On April 18, 2001, Mr. Patrick will be considered for
election as Executive  Vice  President and General  Counsel of the Company.  Mr.
Patrick's  employment  with the Company will commence on April 2, 2001. In 1999,
Mr.  Patrick  joined  Texaco Inc. as Vice  President  and General  Counsel.  Mr.
Patrick  had been a partner  with the  Boston law firm of Day Berry & Howard LLP
since 1997. Mr. Patrick was also Assistant Attorney General of the United States
and Chief of the U.S. Justice Department's Civil Rights Division from 1994 until
1997,   where  he  was  responsible  for  enforcing   federal  laws  prohibiting
discrimination.

     The Executive  Committee is responsible for setting policy and establishing
strategic direction for the Company. On March 7, 2001, the Company announced the
expansion  of the  Executive  Committee,  which  will  consist of Mr.  Daft,  as
chairman, and Messrs. Allan, Chestnut, Dunn, Frenette, Heyer, Patrick and Ware.

     All  executive  officers  serve at the pleasure of the Board of  Directors.
There is no family  relationship  between any of the  executive  officers of the
Company.

     On March 4,  2001,  our  Company  announced  a new  operational  management
structure.  See "Item 1. - Business".  As part of this new management structure,
the  Company  also  announced  that Jack L. Stahl had decided to resign from his
position as President  and Chief  Operating  Officer of the  Company,  effective
immediately, in order to explore other career interests and opportunities.


                                       13


                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHARE-OWNER
        MATTERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 33 through 43,  "Selected  Financial  Data" for the years 1999 and 2000 on
page 44, "Stock  Prices" on page 69 and "Common  Stock",  "Stock  Exchanges" and
"Dividends"  under  the  heading  "Share-Owner  Information"  on  page 72 of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share  Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2000
(the "Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners"), are incorporated herein by
reference.

     During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, no equity securities of the
Company were sold by the Company which were not registered  under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- -------------------------------

     "Selected  Financial Data" for the years 1996 through 2000, on pages 44 and
45 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners,  is incorporated  herein
by reference.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 33 through 43 of the  Company's  2000 Annual  Report to Share  Owners,  is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Risk  Management" on page 36 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ---------------------------------------------------

     The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company and its
subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners, are
incorporated herein by reference:

        Consolidated Balance Sheets --  December 31, 2000 and 1999.

        Consolidated Statements of Income -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners' Equity -- Years ended
        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

     "Quarterly Data (Unaudited)" on page 69 of the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Not applicable.

                                       14



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- -----------------------------------------------------------

     For  information  on  Directors of the Company,  the  subsection  under the
heading "Election of Directors" entitled "Board of Directors" on pages 5 through
9  and  under  the  heading  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership   Reporting
Compliance" on page 12 of the Company's  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting
of  Share  Owners  to  be  held  April  18,  2001  (the  "Company's  2001  Proxy
Statement"),  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  See Item X in Part I for
information regarding executive officers of the Company.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- -------------------------------

     The  subsection  under  the  heading   "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information about Committees,  Meetings and Compensation of Directors" on pages
13 and 14, the  portion of the section  entitled  "Executive  Compensation"  set
forth  on  pages  16  through  23,  and the  subsection  entitled  "Compensation
Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation"  on  pages  31 and 32 of the
Company's 2001 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Ownership  of Equity  Securities  in the  Company"  on pages 10  through 12 and
"Principal  Share  Owners"  on pages 12 and 13,  and the  subsection  under  the
heading "Certain Investee  Companies"  entitled  "Ownership of Securities in the
Investee  Companies"  on page 33 of the  Company's  2001  Proxy  Statement,  are
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------

     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information  about  Committees,  Meetings and  Compensation  of Directors"  and
"Certain  Transactions and Relationships" on pages 13 through 15, the subsection
under the heading  "Executive  Compensation"  entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Interlocks and Insider  Participation"  on pages 31 and 32 and the section under
the heading  "Certain  Investee  Companies"  on pages 32 and 33 of the Company's
2001 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.



                                       15




                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) 1.  Financial Statements

        The following  consolidated  financial  statements of The Coca-Cola
        Company and subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
        to Share Owners, are  incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

        Consolidated Balance Sheets -- December 31, 2000 and 1999.

        Consolidated Statements of Income -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows -- Years ended December 31, 2000,
        1999 and 1998.

        Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners'Equity -- Years ended
        December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

     2. The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
        Company and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

        Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.  All other schedules
        for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations
        of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
        related instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been
        omitted.

     3. Exhibits

EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

3.1             Certificate of  Incorporation of the Company,  including
                Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,  effective May 1,
                1996 -- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
                Company's  Form 10-Q Quarterly Report  for the  quarter  ended
                March  31,  1996. (With  regard  to applicable cross references
                in this report, the Company's Current, Quarterly and Annual
                Reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                under File No.  1-2217.)

3.2             By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                year ended  December 31, 1999.

4.1             The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the
                rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of
                its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries
                for which  financial  statements are required to be filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission.

10.1.1          The Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*


                                       16


EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

10.1.2          Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3          Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4          Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2            Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

10.3            Annual Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.4            1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999*

10.5            1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.6            1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 2000.*

10.7            1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.8            1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.9.1          Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28,
                1995 -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2          Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company, effective as of January 1, 1998 --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

10.10           Special Medical Insurance Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.11.1         Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1993.*



                                       17

EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

10.11.2         Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3         Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4         Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5         Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12           Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company, as
                amended -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

10.13           Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the
                Company, adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

10.14           Deferred Compensation Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

10.15           Long Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16           Executive Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.17.1         Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.17.1 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.2         Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.3         Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.18           Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000 -- incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.19           Executive Incentive Plan of the Company, adopted as of February
                14, 2001.*


                                       18


Exhibit No.
- ----------

10.20           Restricted Stock Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, between the
                Company and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.21           Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises") or its subsidiaries  incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.24 of Coca-Cola Enterprises' Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).

12.1            Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

13.1            Portions of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners
                expressly incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 33 through
                67, 69, 72 and the inside back cover (definitions of "Dividend
                Payout Ratio," "Economic Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest
                Coverage Ratio," "Net Capital," "Net Debt," "Return on Capital,"
                "Return on Common Equity," "Total Capital" and "Total Market
                Value of Common Stock").

21.1            List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2000.

23.1            Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1            Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

99.1            Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K -- The Company did not file any reports on Form 8-K
during the last quarter of the period covered by this report.

(c)     Exhibits -- The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a
separate section of this report.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedule -- The response to this portion of Item 14
is submitted as a separate section of this report.


                                       19


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
                                             (Registrant)



                                        By:  /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        -------------------------
                                        DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief
                                        Executive Officer and a Director

                                        Date:  March 7, 2001


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT                                     *
- -----------------------------------     ---------------------------------
DOUGLAS N. DAFT                         CATHLEEN P. BLACK
Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief     Director
Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001


/s/ GARY P. FAYARD                                      *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
GARY P. FAYARD                          WARREN E. BUFFETT
Senior Vice President and Chief         Director
Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001


/s/ CONNIE D. McDANIEL                                  *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
CONNIE D. McDANIEL                      SUSAN B. KING
Vice President and Controller           Director
(Principal Accounting Officer)


March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ----------------------------------
HERBERT A. ALLEN                        DONALD F. McHENRY
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
RONALD W. ALLEN                         SAM NUNN
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001


                                       20



                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
PAUL F. OREFFICE                        PETER V. UEBERROTH
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     -----------------------------------
JAMES D. ROBINSON III                   JAMES B. WILLIAMS
Director                                Director

March 7, 2001                           March 7, 2001







* By: /s/ CAROL C. HAYES
      ----------------------------
      CAROL C. HAYES
      Attorney-in-fact



      March 7, 2001






                                       21





















































[This Page Intentionally Left Blank]

























                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                   ITEM 14(d)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES






                  SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Year ended December 31, 2000
                                  (in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                              COL. B                 COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>              <C>             <C>              <C>

RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........      $  26          $  37            $   4           $   5            $  62
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................        322             23                -              51              294
    Deferred tax assets..............        443            353                -             155              641
                                           -----          -----            -----           -----            -----
                                           $ 791          $ 413            $   4           $ 211            $ 997
                                           =====          =====            =====           =====            =====


</TABLE>


- --------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:

</FN>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                              <C>                        <C>                   <C>             <C>

Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......      $  4                       $  -                  $   -          $   4
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                         51                      -             51
Other transactions.........................         1                          -                    155            156
                                                 ----                       ----                  -----          -----
                                                 $  5                       $ 51                  $ 155          $ 211
                                                 ====                       ====                  =====          =====
</TABLE>


                                      F-1



                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                  (IN MILLIONS)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                                   COL. B             COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>              <C>             <C>              <C>
RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........      $  10          $  13            $   5           $   2            $  26
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................        275             43               88              84              322
    Deferred tax assets..............         18            443                -              18              443
                                           -----          -----            -----           -----            -----
                                           $ 303          $ 499            $  93           $ 104            $ 791
                                           =====          =====            =====           =====            =====



</TABLE>


- --------------------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:

</FN>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                              <C>                        <C>                   <C>
Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......      $  3                       $  2                  $  -          $   5
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                         81                     -             81
Other transactions.........................        (1)                         1                    18             18
                                                 ----                       ----                  ----          -----
                                                 $  2                       $ 84                  $ 18          $ 104
                                                 ====                       ====                  ====          =====
</TABLE>

                                      F-2



                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                  (IN MILLIONS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                                   COL. B             COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>              <C>             <C>              <C>
RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........      $  23          $   3            $   -           $  16            $  10
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................        301             76                -             102              275
    Deferred tax assets..............         21              -                -               3               18
                                           -----          -----            -----           -----            -----
                                           $ 345          $  79            $   -           $ 121            $ 303
                                           =====          =====            =====           =====            =====


</TABLE>


- --------------------------
[FN]

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:
</FN>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                              <C>                        <C>                    <C>           <C>

Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......      $  6                       $  23                  $  -          $  29
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                          70                     -             70
Other transactions.........................        10                           9                     3             22
                                                 ----                       -----                  ----          -----
                                                 $ 16                       $ 102                  $  3          $ 121
                                                 ====                       =====                  ====          =====

</TABLE>






                                      F-3


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------


EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

3.1             Certificate of  Incorporation of the Company,  including
                Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation,  effective May 1,
                1996 -- incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the
                Company's  Form 10-Q Quarterly Report  for the  quarter  ended
                March  31,  1996. (With  regard  to applicable cross references
                in this report, the Company's Current, Quarterly and Annual
                Reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
                under File No.  1-2217.)

3.2             By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through
                February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                year ended  December 31, 1999.

4.1             The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
                Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the
                rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of
                its consolidated  subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries
                for which  financial  statements are required to be filed with
                the Securities and Exchange Commission.

10.1.1          The Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended
                --  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*


10.1.2          Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 9, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3          Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of February 16, 1999 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.1.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4          Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the
                Company, dated as of January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.1.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2            Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1991.*

10.3            Annual Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.4            1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999*

10.5            1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 20, 1999 -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
                the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*


EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

10.6            1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated
                through April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
                quarter ended March 31, 2000.*

10.7            1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.7 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.8            1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended
                through February 17, 2000 -- incorporated herein by reference
                to Exhibit 10.8 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.9.1          Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as
                amended, including Amendment Number Four dated November 28,
                1995 -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2          Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation Deferral & Investment
                Program of the Company, effective as of January 1, 1998 --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1997.*

10.10           Special Medical Insurance Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1995.*

10.11.1         Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company, as amended --
                incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the
                Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
                31, 1993.*

10.11.2         Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2
                of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3         Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated as of July 1, 1998 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4         Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 24, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5         Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
                Company, dated January 25, 2000 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12           Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company, as
                amended -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of
                the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                December 31, 1991.*

10.13           Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the
                Company, adopted as of October 16, 1997 -- incorporated herein
                by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*



EXHIBIT NO.     DESCRIPTION
- -----------     -----------

10.14           Deferred Compensation Agreement for Officers or Key Executives
                of the Company -- incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
                10.20 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
                ended December 31, 1993.*

10.15           Long Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16           Executive Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
                and restated effective April 21, 1999 -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
                Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.17.1         Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant
                and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by reference to
                Exhibit 10.17.1 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.2         Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.17.3         Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the
                Registrant and M. Douglas Ivester -- incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.17.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.18           Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as
                amended and restated effective February 17, 2000 -- incorporated
                herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Form 10-K
                Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.19           Executive Incentive Plan of the Company, adopted as of February
                14, 2001.*

10.20           Restricted Stock Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, between the
                Company and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.21           Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended,
                between the Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola
                Enterprises") or its subsidiaries  incorporated herein by
                reference to Exhibit 10.24 of Coca-Cola Enterprises' Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1988
                (File No. 01-09300).

12.1            Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years
                ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

13.1            Portions of the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners
                expressly incorporated by reference herein:  Pages 33 through
                67, 69, 72 and the inside back cover (definitions of "Dividend
                Payout Ratio," "Economic Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest
                Coverage Ratio," "Net Capital," "Net Debt," "Return on Capital,"
                "Return on Common Equity," "Total Capital" and "Total Market
                Value of Common Stock").

21.1            List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2000.

23.1            Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1            Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this
                report.

99.1            Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN, ADOPTED ON FEBRUARY 14, 2001
<TEXT>

                                                                   Exhibit 10.19

                            EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN
                            OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY


                                I. Plan Objective
                                -----------------

     The purpose of the Executive  Incentive Plan of The Coca-Cola Company is to
promote  the  interests  of the  Company by  providing  a  competitive  level of
incentive compensation for participating executive and senior officers to better
enable the Company to attract and retain highly  qualified  executive and senior
officers.  This Plan is intended  to provide an  opportunity  through  which the
Company  can  measure  and  reward the  performance  of  eligible  participating
executive  and  senior  officers  pursuant  to  standards  based on  performance
measures other than the Companys financial performance.


                                 II. Definitions
                                 ---------------

     The terms used herein will have the following meanings:

     a.  "Award" means an award, with adjustments (if any), paid pursuant to the
         provisions of the Plan.

     b.  "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

     c.  "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
         or a subcommittee thereof consisting of not less than two members of
         the Board of Directors.

     d.  "Company" means The Coca-Cola Company and any corporation or other
         business organization in which the Company owns, directly or
         indirectly,  at least 20 percent of the voting stock or capital.

     e.  "Opportunity" will have the meaning set forth in Section V(a) hereof.

     f.  "Participant" means an executive or senior officer who is selected for
         participation by the Committee.

     g.  "Plan" means this Executive Incentive Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.

     h.  "Plan Year" means the 12 month period beginning January 1 and ending
         December 31.

                         III. Administration of the Plan
                         -------------------------------

     The  Committee  will  have  full  power  and  authority  to  interpret  and
administer the Plan in accordance with the rules and  determinations  adopted by
it.


                         IV. Eligibility
                                 ---------------

     Eligibility  for  participation  in the Plan is  limited to  executive  and
senior  officers who are selected in the sole  discretion of the  Committee.  No
person will be  automatically  entitled to  participate  in the Plan in any Plan
Year.

     The fact that an executive or senior officer has been  designated  eligible
to  participate  in the Plan in one Plan Year does not assure that such  officer
will be  eligible  to  participate  in any  subsequent  year.  The fact  that an
executive or senior officer  participates in the Plan for any Plan Year does not
mean that such officer will receive an Award in any Plan Year.

                    V. Determination of Performance Criteria
                    ----------------------------------------

     a. The Committee will determine a dollar amount for each  Participant  that
will  represent a  percentage  of the  Participants  annual  salary and level of
responsibility  (the "Opportunity") that may be awarded to each such Participant
under this Plan for such Plan Year,  provided  that such  Participant  satisfies
certain performance criteria.

     The Committee  will, at the time the  Opportunity is determined,  designate
certain individual performance criteria for each Participant.  Such criteria may
include,  but will not be limited to, any of the following:  (i)  enhancement of
diversity among the employees of the Company; (ii) improvement in the quality of
the Companys products;  (iii) outstanding individual  professional  performance;
and (iv) any other  criteria as approved by the  Committee.  Awards will be paid
for such Plan Year at such  time  following  the end of the Plan Year as will be
determined by the Committee.

     Any Participant who changes  executive  positions  during the Plan Year and
who retains  the  Opportunity  initially  set for him or her may have his or her
Award  determined  by  prorating  the portion of the Award that would be derived
upon satisfaction of the individual  performance criteria for the portion of the
year to which such Opportunity applies.

     b. The  satisfaction  of individual  performance  criteria for a particular
Plan Year will be determined and approved as follows:  (i) the determination and
approval with respect to the Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer will be made
by the Committee,  and (ii) the  determination  and approval with respect to the
other  executive  and senior  officers  will be made by the  Committee  upon the
recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Awards will be paid
for such Plan Year at such  time  following  the end of the Plan Year as will be
determined  by the  Committee.  The date on which  the  Committee  approves  the
satisfaction  of  performance  criteria and  determines the Awards is called the
Award Certification Date.

                         VI. Method of Payment of Awards
                         -------------------------------

     All  Awards  will be  paid in cash  within  60  days  following  the  Award
Certification  Date,  unless the  Committee  has,  no later than the grant of an
Award, received and, in its sole discretion, approved a request by a Participant
to defer receipt of any Award in accordance with the following options:


                                      2


     a. An option to  receive  full cash  payment  at a date,  specified  in the
request,  not less  than one year  from the date of the  Award nor more than one
year after the Participants date of retirement, or

     b. An  option to  receive  the Award in equal  annual  installments  over a
period,  specified  in the  request,  of not more  than 15  years,  such  period
commencing  not less than one year from the  Award  Certification  Date nor more
than one year after the Award Certification Date.

     Any request to defer receipt of an Award will specify the particular option
chosen.  Any amount  deferred in  accordance  with the above  options  will bear
interest at the prime rate of SunTrust  Bank,  Atlanta as in effect from time to
time from the date on which  Awards that have not been  deferred  in  accordance
with this Section VI are paid to the date of payment,  but  interest  will in no
case  constitute  interest  that is  "above-market"  as set forth in Item 402 of
Regulation  S-K (or any successor  thereto)  promulgated  by the  Securities and
Exchange Commission.

     The  Committee,  in its sole  discretion,  may  reduce or refuse to pay any
Award.

     The Company will have the right to deduct from any payment,  in whole or in
part,  of an Award,  any taxes  required  to be  withheld  with  respect to such
payment.

     A  Participant  who retires,  dies,  is granted a leave of absence or whose
employment is otherwise  terminated  prior to the end of such Plan Year may have
his or her Award pro-rated to reflect the Participants actual term of service.


                          VII. Effect on Benefit Plans
                          ----------------------------

     Awards will be included in the  computation  of benefits under the Employee
Retirement Plan,  Overseas Retirement Plan and other retirement plans maintained
by the  Company  under which the  Participant  may be covered and the Thrift and
Investment  Plan,  subject to all  applicable  laws and in  accordance  with the
provisions of those plans.

     Awards will not be included in the  computation of benefits under any group
life insurance plan, travel accident insurance plan, personal accident insurance
plan or under  Company  policies  such as severance  pay and payment for accrued
vacation, unless required by applicable laws.

                      VIII. Determinations of the Committee
                      -------------------------------------

     The Committee will,  subject to the provisions of the Plan,  establish such
rules  and  regulations  as it  deems  necessary  or  advisable  for the  proper
administration of the Plan and will make determinations and will take such other
action in connection with or in relation to accomplishing  the objectives of the
Plan as it deems necessary or advisable. Each determination or other action made
or taken  pursuant  to the Plan,  including  interpretation  of the Plan and the
specific  conditions  and  provisions  of the Awards  granted  hereunder  by the
Committee,  will be final and  conclusive  for all purposes and upon all persons
including, but without limitation, the Participants, the Company, the Committee,
the Board of Directors,  the officers, the affected

                                       3


employees of the Company and their respective  successors in interest.  The
Committee has full  discretion to reduce the amount of any Award or to refuse to
pay any Award.

                          IX. Amendment and Termination
                          -----------------------------

     The Board of Directors or the Committee may terminate the Plan at any time.
From time to time, the Committee may suspend the Plan, in whole or in part. From
time to time,  the  Board of  Directors  or the  Committee  may  amend the Plan,
including  the adoption of amendments  deemed  necessary or desirable to correct
any defect,  supply an omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in
any Award granted  hereunder.  No amendment,  termination or modification of the
Plan may in any manner affect Awards theretofore  granted without the consent of
the Participant  unless the Committee has made a determination that an amendment
or  modification  is in the best  interest  of all  persons to whom  Awards have
theretofore  been granted,  but in no event may such  amendment or  modification
result in an increase  in the amount of  compensation  payable  pursuant to such
Award.

                                X. Applicable Law
                                -----------------

     The Plan and all rules and  determinations  made and taken pursuant  hereto
will be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia and construed accordingly.


                              XI. Change in Control
                              ---------------------

     Except as set forth  herein,  the  Committee  has no  obligation to pay any
amounts under the Plan to a Participant who leaves the employ of the Company for
any reason.  If there is a Change in Control (as defined in this  Section XI) at
any time during a Plan Year,  the Committee  promptly  will  determine the Award
that would have been  payable to each  Participant  under the Plan for such Plan
Year if such  Participant  had continued to work for the Company for such entire
year and any criteria  established under Section V had been met in full for such
Plan Year, and such Award multiplied by a fraction,  the numerator of which will
be the number of full calendar  months that such  Participant  is an employee of
the Company during such Plan Year and the denominator of which will be 12 or the
number of full  calendar  months  the Plan is in effect  during  such Plan Year,
whichever is less. The payment of a Participants  nonforfeitable interest in his
or her Award under this  Section XI will be made in cash as soon as  practicable
after such  Participants  employment  by the  Company  terminates  or as soon as
practicable after the end of such Plan Year, whichever comes first.

     A "Change in Control",  for purposes of this Section XI, will mean a change
in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item
6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation l4A promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as in effect on January 1, 2001,  provided that
such a change in control will be deemed to have occurred at such time as (i) any
"person"  (as that term is used in Sections  13(d) and  14(d)(2) of the Exchange
Act) is or becomes  the  beneficial  owner (as  defined in Rule 13d-3  under the
Exchange Act) directly or indirectly,  of securities representing 20% or more of
the combined  voting  power for  election of  directors of the then  outstanding
securities  of the  Company or any  successor  of the  Company;  (ii) during any
period of two  consecutive  years or less,  individuals  who at the beginning of
such period  constituted  the Board of Directors of the Company  cease,

                                       4


for  any  reason,  to  constitute  at  least a  majority  of the  Board  of
Directors,  unless the election or nomination  for election of each new director
was approved by a vote of at least  two-thirds  of the  directors  then still in
office who were directors at the beginning of the period; (iii) the share owners
of the  Company  approve  any merger or  consolidation  as a result of which its
stock will be  changed,  converted  or  exchanged  (other  than a merger  with a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) or any liquidation of the Company or any
sale or other  disposition  of 50% or more of the assets or earning power of the
Company;  or (iv)  the  share  owners  of the  Company  approve  any  merger  or
consolidation  to which the  Company is a party as a result of which the persons
who were share owners of the Company  immediately prior to the effective date of
the merger or consolidation  will have beneficial  ownership of less than 50% of
the combined voting power for election of directors of the surviving corporation
following the effective date of such merger or consolidation; provided, however,
that no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred if, prior to such time
as a Change in Control would otherwise be deemed to have occurred,  the Board of
Directors determines otherwise.



















                                       5


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.20
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT, DATED DECEMBER 20, 2001,
                  BETWEEN TCCC AND CHARLES S. FRENETTE
<TEXT>


                                                                   Exhibit 10.20

                           RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT


     The  Coca-Cola  Company  (the  "Company")  hereby  agrees  to  award to the
recipient  named below (the Recipient) on the date set forth below (Future Award
Date) the number of shares of Common Stock,  $.25 par value, of the Company (the
"Shares"),  in  accordance  with  and  subject  to  the  terms,  conditions  and
restrictions of this Agreement. If the conditions described below are satisfied,
such award will be made under the terms of The Coca-Cola 1989  Restricted  Stock
Award Plan (the  "Plan") of the Company on the Future  Award Date.  All benefits
hereunder  will be cancelled and all terms of this  Agreement  shall be null and
void if a  majority  of  shareholders  voting  at the  next  annual  meeting  of
shareowners do not approve the granting of this award:

        Name and Address of Recipient:  Charles S. Frenette,
                                        London, England

        Number of Shares Subject to Agreement:  125,000

        Agreement Date:  December 20, 2000

        Future Award Date:      January 3, 2006

Performance Criteria:* simple average annual growth in earnings per share
                        equals or exceeds 15% during the Measurement
                        Period.  Earnings per share shall be defined as:

               Income available to common shareholders (excluding
              nonrecurring items) + Effect of assumed conversions
          -------------------------------------------------------------
           Weighted-average shares + Dilutive potential common shares


        Measurement Period:*    January 1, 2001  December 31, 2005

        Release Date:*          March 1, 2006

        Acceptance Date:        December 29, 2000

(1)     An award of  Restricted  Stock  under the Plan will be  awarded  to the
        Recipient on the Future  Award Date noted above.  No Shares will be
        delivered to the Recipient or


*  All as qualified herein


                              - HIGHLY RESTRICTED -
                                       1


        transferred  into the Recipients  name until such Future Award Date.
        After such Future Award is made, the Shares will be released from
        restrictions on the Release Date noted above only upon the  satisfaction
        of all terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.

        (a)     Certificate(s) representing the Shares shall be delivered on the
                Release Date only if the Recipient, on the Release Date, is, and
                has continuously been since the Award Date set forth above (the
                "Award Date"), employed by the Company or a Related Company
                since the Agreement Date, except as provided in paragraph 1 (b).
                In addition, the Shares shall be delivered only if certain
                Performance Criteria, set forth above, are met during the
                Measurement Period.  Further, Recipient understands and acknow-
                ledges that the Compensation Committee may reduce the number of
                Shares released even if the specified performance criteria are
                met if the Recipient fails to meet other objectives and goals,
                as determined solely in the discretion of the Compensation
                Committee or a subcommittee thereof.   Recipient will be
                required to agree to such additional conditions as set by the
                Compensation Committee or a subcommittee thereof or to
                immediately forfeit the Shares.

        (b)     If the Recipient dies or becomes disabled prior to the Future
                Award Date, the terms of this subparagraph shall apply. If death
                or disability occurs in the first year of the Measurement
                Period, no award will be made on the Future Award Date and no
                payments shall be due under this Agreement.  If death or
                disability occurs in any year thereafter, the Recipient  or the
                Recipients estate shall receive a cash payment, less any
                applicable taxes, equal to the value of the Shares (in U.S.
                Dollars) (the Cash Payment) determined based upon the dates and
                Measurement Periods as modified below :

                1.      If death or disability occurs between January 1 and
                        June 30 of any calendar year following the first year,
                        the Measurement Period will begin on January 1, 2001
                        and end on December 31 of the calendar year preceding
                        the death or disability.  The Cash Payment will be made
                        on the 90th day following death or disability; or

                2.      If death or disability occurs between July 1 and
                        December 31 of any calendar year following the first
                        year, the Measurement Period will begin on January 1,
                        2001 and end on December 31 of the calendar year in
                        which the death or disability occurs.  The Cash Payment
                        will be made on the March 1 following the year in which
                        death or disability occurs.

                The number of Shares to be valued for the Cash Payment will be
                pro-rated by a fraction with the numerator being the number of
                months the Recipient was

                              - HIGHLY RESTRICTED -
                                       2


                in the position during the Measurement Period and the
                denominator being the original number of months in the
                Measurement Period.   The value of any additional Shares will
                not be included in the Cash Payment.  If the performance
                criteria are not met during the shortened Measurement Period,
                no payment shall be due.

        (c)     Recipient shall have no rights with respect to the Shares,
                including but not limited to rights to sell, vote, exchange,
                transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the
                Shares.

        (d)     The Recipient shall indicate his or her acceptance of this
                Agreement by signing and returning this Agreement by the
                Acceptance Date indicated above.

        (e)     During the period between the Agreement Date and the Future
                Award Date, the Recipient will receive from Recipients employer
                a quarterly cash payment, less all applicable taxes, equal to
                the dividend that would be paid on an equivalent number of
                shares of Company Stock.

        (f)     In the event that the Companys shares, as a result of a stock
                split or stock dividend or combination of shares or any other
                change or exchange for other securities, by reclassification,
                reorganization or otherwise, are increased or decreased or
                changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of
                shares of stock or other securities of the Company or of another
                corporation, the number of Shares to be awarded under this
                Agreement shall be adjusted to reflect such change in such
                manner as the Board of Directors of the Company or the
                Committee may deem appropriate.  If any such adjustment shall
                result in a fractional share, such fraction shall be
                disregarded.

        (g)     In the event that the Recipient shall cease to be employed by
                the Company or a Related Company (including due to retirement as
                defined in the Plan) for any reason other than death, disability
                (subject to Section 1(b)) or a Change of Control as defined in
                the Plan prior to the Release Date, or shall violate any of the
                provisions of this Agreement, this Agreement shall become null
                and void and no awards or payments shall be due to the
                Recipient.


     2.  Each notice  relating to this award shall be in writing. All notices to
the Company  shall be addressed to the  Secretary,  The Coca-Cola  Company,  One
Coca-Cola Plaza,  Atlanta,  Georgia 30313. All notices to the Recipient shall be
addressed  to the address of the  Recipient  specified  on the face page of this
Agreement. Either the Company or the Recipient may designate a different address
by written notice to the other. Written notice to

                              - HIGHLY RESTRICTED -
                                       3



said  addresses  shall be effective to bind the Company,  the Recipient and
the Recipient's representatives and beneficiaries.

     4.  The  Recipient  hereby  agrees  that  (a) any  change,  interpretation,
determination  or modification of this agreement by the Committee shall be final
and conclusive for all purposes and on all persons including the Company and the
Recipient; provided, however, that with respect to any amendment or modification
of the Plan which affects the award of Shares made hereby,  the Committee  shall
have  determined that such amendment or modification is in the best interests of
the  Recipient  of such award;  and (b) this  Agreement  and the award of Shares
shall not affect in any way the right of the Recipients employer to terminate or
change the employment of the Recipient.

     5.  If any of the terms of this Agreement may in the opinion of the Company
conflict  or be  inconsistent  with  any  applicable  law or  regulation  of any
governmental  agency  having  jurisdiction,  the Company  reserves  the right to
modify this Agreement to be consistent with applicable laws or regulations.

     6.  This  Agreement has been made in and  shall be  construed  under and in
accordance with the laws of the State of Georgia.

                                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

                                        BY:  THE COMMITTEE



                                        /s/ SUSAN E. SHAW
                                        -------------------------
                                        Authorized Signature

     I have read the above  Agreement  and hereby  accept the above award of the
terms and  conditions  of this  agreement and I agree to be bound thereby and by
the actions of the Committee.


27/12/00                                /s/ CHARLES S. FRENETTE
- ----------                              --------------------------
Date Accepted                            Recipient





                              - HIGHLY RESTRICTED -
                                       4


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>

                                                                   Exhibit 12.1




                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
               Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
                          (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT RATIOS)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                            Year Ended December 31,
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                   2000      1999      1998      1997      1996
                                -----------------------------------------------


Earnings:
<S>                             <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
 Income from continuing
  operations before
  income taxes and
  changes in accounting
  principles                    $ 3,399   $ 3,819   $ 5,198   $ 6,055   $ 4,596

 Fixed charges                      489       386       320       300       324

 Less: Capitalized interest,
        net                         (11)      (18)      (17)      (17)       (7)

       Equity income or loss,
        net of dividends            380       292        31      (108)      (89)
                                -------   -------   -------   -------   -------

    Adjusted earnings           $ 4,257   $ 4,479   $ 5,532   $ 6,230   $ 4,824
                                =======   =======   =======   =======   =======

 Fixed charges:

   Gross interest incurred      $   458   $   355   $   294   $   275   $   293

   Interest portion of rent
    expense                          31        31        26        25        31
                                -------   -------   -------   -------   -------

      Total fixed charges       $   489   $   386   $   320   $   300   $   324
                                =======   =======   =======   =======   =======


      Ratios of earnings to
       fixed charges                8.7      11.6      17.3      20.8      14.9
                                =======   =======   =======   =======   =======
</TABLE>


The Company is contingently  liable for guarantees of indebtedness owed by third
parties  in the  amount  of  $397  million,  of  which $7  million  related  to
independent bottling licensees.  Fixed charges for these contingent liabilities
have not been included in the computation of the above ratios as the amounts are
immaterial  and,  in the opinion of  Management,  it is not  probable  that the
Company will be required to satisfy the guarantees.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>0005.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF 2000 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1


FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   The Coca-Cola  Company exists to benefit and refresh  everyone who is touched
by our business.  We believe that our success  ultimately depends on our ability
to build and nurture  relationships  with constituents that are essential to our
business:  consumers,  customers,  bottlers,  partners,  government authorities,
communities, employees and share owners. To this end, our Company has adopted an
overriding  strategy of "Think local, act local," applicable  to  virtually  all
aspects of our business. This strategy is designed to put the responsibility and
accountability for ensuring local relevance and maximizing business  performance
in the hands of those  closest to the  market.  This  enables us to achieve  our
objectives of increasing volume,  expanding our share of worldwide  nonalcoholic
ready-to-drink  beverage sales, maximizing our long-term cash flows and creating
economic value added by improving economic profit. We pursue these objectives by
strategically  investing in the high-return  beverage business and by optimizing
our cost of capital through appropriate financial  strategies.
   There are over 6 billion  people in the world who decide every day whether or
not to buy our products. Each of these people represents a potential consumer of
our  Company's  products.  As we increase  consumer demand for our  portfolio of
brands, we produce growth throughout the Coca-Cola system. This growth typically
comes in the form of increased  finished  product  purchases  by our  consumers,
increased  finished product sales by our customers,  increased case sales by our
bottling partners and increased gallon sales by our Company.
   The Coca-Cola  system has millions of customers  around the world who sell or
serve our products directly to consumers. We keenly focus on enhancing value for
these customers and providing solutions to grow their beverage  businesses.  Our
approach includes  understanding each customers business and needs, whether that
customer is a sophisticated  retailer in a developed  market or a kiosk owner in
an emerging market.

INVESTMENTS
- -----------
   With a business  system that  operates  locally in nearly 200  countries  and
generates superior cash flows, we consider our Company to be uniquely positioned
to  capitalize  on  profitable  investment   opportunities.   Our  criteria  for
investment  are simple:  New  investments  must  directly  enhance our  existing
operations  and must be expected to provide  cash  returns that exceed our long-
term,  after-tax,  weighted-average  cost of  capital,  currently  estimated  at
approximately 11 percent.
   Because it consistently  generates high returns,  the beverage  business is a
particularly  attractive  investment for us. In highly  developed  markets,  our
expenditures  focus primarily on marketing our Company's brands. In emerging and
developing  markets,  our  objective  is to  increase  the  penetration  of  our
products. In these markets, we allocate most of our investments to enhancing our
brands and infrastructure such as production facilities,  distribution networks,
sales equipment and technology.  We make these  investments by forming strategic
business  alliances with local bottlers and by matching local expertise with our
experience,  resources  and  focus.  Our  investment  strategy  focuses  on four
fundamental  components  of our  business:  people,  marketing,  brands  and our
bottling system.

PEOPLE
   To meet our long-term growth objectives,  we recruit and actively cultivate a
diverse workforce and establish a culture that fosters learning,  innovation and
value creation on a daily basis. This means maintaining and refining a corporate
culture  that  encourages  our  people to develop  to their  fullest  potential,
assuring  enjoyment and  satisfaction  in the Coca-Cola  work  environment.  Our
Company values the uniqueness of all employees and the contributions they make.

MARKETING
   We make significant investments in marketing to support our brands. Marketing
investments  enhance consumer awareness and increase consumer preference for our
brands. This produces long-term growth in volume, per capita consumption and our
share of worldwide nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage sales.
   We  heighten  consumer  awareness  and  product  appeal for our brands  using
integrated marketing programs.  Through our relationships with bottling partners
and those who sell our  products  in the  marketplace,  we create and  implement
these programs locally. In developing a strategy for a Company brand, we conduct
product and packaging  research,  establish brand  positioning,  develop precise
consumer communications and solicit consumer feedback. Our integrated global and
local marketing programs include  activities such as advertising,  point-of-sale
merchandising and sales promotions.

BRANDS

    We  compete  in the  nonalcoholic  ready-to-drink  beverage  business.  Our
offerings in this category  include some of the world's most valuable  brands --
239 in all. These include soft drinks and noncarbonated beverages such as sports
drinks,  juice and juice drinks, water products,  teas and coffees.  Ultimately,
consumer demand determines the Company's optimal brand portfolio.  Employing the
"Think  local,  act  local"  business  strategy  with a  special  focus on brand
Coca-Cola, the Company seeks to build its existing brands and, at the same time,
to broaden its historical portfolio of brands. As discussed earlier, to meet our
long-term  growth  objectives,  we make  significant  investments to support our
brands.  This involves  investments to support existing  brands,  to develop new
global or local brands, and to acquire global or local brands, when appropriate.


                                       33



FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


BOTTLING SYSTEM
   Our Company has  business  relationships  with three types of  bottlers:  (1)
independently  owned  bottlers,  in which  we have no  ownership  interest;  (2)
bottlers in which we have invested and have a noncontrolling ownership interest;
and (3)  bottlers in which we have  invested  and have a  controlling  ownership
interest.
   During 2000, independently owned bottling operations produced and distributed
approximately 25 percent of our worldwide unit case volume. Bottlers in which we
own a noncontrolling  ownership interest produced and distributed  approximately
59 percent of our 2000  worldwide  unit case  volume.  Controlled  bottling  and
fountain operations  produced and distributed  approximately 16 percent.
   We view  certain  bottling  operations  in  which  we  have a  noncontrolling
ownership   interest  as  key  or  anchor   bottlers   due  to  their  level  of
responsibility  and  performance.  The strong  commitment of both key and anchor
bottlers to their own profitable volume growth helps us meet our strategic goals
and  furthers  the  interests  of our  worldwide  production,  distribution  and
marketing systems.  These bottlers tend to be large and geographically  diverse,
with strong financial  resources for long-term  investment and strong management
resources.  These  bottlers give us strategic  business  partners on every major
continent.
   In 1998,  Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (Coca-Cola Amatil) completed a spin-off of
its European  operations  into a new,  publicly  traded European anchor bottler,
Coca-Cola  Beverages plc (Coca-Cola  Beverages).  On December 31, 1999, we owned
approximately  50.5 percent of Coca-Cola  Beverages.  In July 2000, a merger of
Coca-Cola  Beverages and Hellenic  Bottling Company S.A. was completed to create
Coca-Cola HBC S.A. (CCHBC).  This merger resulted in a decrease of our Company's
equity ownership interest from approximately 50.5 percent of Coca-Cola Beverages
to  approximately  24 percent of the  combined  entity,  CCHBC.  This  change in
ownership  resulted in the Company  recognizing a $118 million  tax-free noncash
gain in the third quarter of 2000.
   In January  1999,  two  Japanese  bottlers,  Kita Kyushu  Coca-Cola  Bottling
Company Ltd. and Sanyo Coca-Cola  Bottling  Company Ltd.,  announced plans for a
merger to become a new, publicly traded bottling  company,  Coca-Cola West Japan
Company  Ltd. The  transaction,  which was  completed in July 1999,  created our
first anchor bottler in Japan. We currently own  approximately 5 percent of this
bottler.
   Historically, in certain situations, we have viewed it to be advantageous for
our Company to acquire a controlling  interest in a bottling  operation.  Owning
such a  controlling  interest  has allowed us to  compensate  for limited  local
resources  and has  enabled us to help focus the  bottler's sales and  marketing
programs,  assist in  developing  its  business  and  information  systems,  and
establish appropriate capital structures.
   In separate transactions during the first half of 2000, our Company purchased
two bottlers in Brazil, Companhia Mineira de Refrescos,  S.A., and Refrigerantes
Minas Gerais Ltda. In October 2000, the Company  purchased a 58 percent interest
in Paraguay Refrescos S.A. (Paresa), a bottler located in Paraguay.  In December
2000, the Company made a tender offer for the remaining 42 percent of the shares
in Paresa.  In January 2001,  we completed  the tender  offer.  We currently own
approximately 95 percent of Paresa.
   In July 1999,  our Company  acquired  from Fraser and Neave  Limited its 75
percent ownership  interest in F&N Coca-Cola Pte Limited (F&N Coca-Cola).  Prior
to the  acquisition,  our  Company  held a 25  percent  equity  interest  in F&N
Coca-Cola.  Acquisition of Fraser and Neave  Limited's 75 percent stake gave our
Company  full  ownership  of F&N  Coca-Cola.  F&N  Coca-Cola  holds  a  majority
ownership in bottling  operations  in Brunei,  Cambodia,  Nepal,  Pakistan,  Sri
Lanka, Singapore and Vietnam.
   In line  with our  long-term  bottling  strategy,  we  periodically  consider
options for  reducing  our  ownership  interest  in a bottler.  One option is to
combine our bottling  interests  with the  bottling  interests of others to form
strategic  business  alliances.  Another  option  is to sell our  interest  in a
bottling  operation  to one of our equity  investee  bottlers.  In both of these
situations,  we continue  participating  in the  bottler's earnings  through our
portion of the equity investee's income.
   As stated  earlier,  our  investments  in a bottler  can  represent  either a
noncontrolling or a controlling interest.  Through noncontrolling investments in
bottling  companies,  we provide  expertise and  resources to  strengthen  those
businesses.  During 2000, the Company entered into a joint venture in China with
China  National  Oils  and  Foodstuffs   Imports/Exports   Corporation  (COFCO),
completion of which is subject to satisfaction of certain  conditions.  COFCO is
contributing  to the joint venture its minority  equity  interests in 11 Chinese
bottlers.  Our  Company is  contributing  its equity  interests  in two  Chinese
bottlers plus cash in exchange for a 35 percent equity interest in the venture.
   In 1999,  we  increased  our  interest  in  Embotelladora  Arica S.A.  (since
renamed  Coca-Cola  Embonor  S.A.),  a  bottler  headquartered  in  Chile,  from
approximately 17 percent to approximately 45 percent.
   Bottlers in which we have a noncontrolling  ownership  interest are accounted
for under  the cost or equity  method  as  appropriate.  Equity  income or loss,
included  in our  consolidated  net  income,  represents  our  share  of the net
earnings or losses of our investee  companies.  In 2000, our Company's  share of
losses from equity method investments totaled $289 million.

                                       34




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   The following  table  illustrates  the difference in calculated  fair values,
based on quoted  closing  prices of publicly  traded  shares, and our  Company's
carrying values for selected equity method investees (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      Fair       Carrying
December 31,                         Value          Value         Difference{1}
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>             <C>             <C>
2000
- ----
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.          $3,210           $707           $2,503
Coca-Cola Amatil Limited               965            617              348
Coca-Cola FEMSA,
  S.A. de C.V.                         957            152              805
Coca-Cola HBC S.A.                     851            758               93
Panamerican
  Beverages, Inc.                      435            487              (52)
Grupo Continental, S.A.                176            139               37
Embotelladoras Argos S.A.               97            113              (16)
Coca-Cola Bottling Company
  Consolidated                          94             66               28
Coca-Cola Embonor S.A.                  90            227             (137)
Embotelladoras Polar S.A.               27             54              (27)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    $3,582
================================================================================
</TABLE>
</FN>

{1} In instances where carrying value exceeds fair value, the decline in
value is considered to be temporary.
</FN>


FINANCIAL STRATEGIES
- --------------------
The following strategies allow us to optimize our cost of capital,
increasing our ability to maximize share-owner value.

DEBT FINANCING
   Our Company maintains debt levels we consider prudent based on our cash flow,
interest  coverage and  percentage of debt to capital.  We use debt financing to
lower our overall cost of capital,  which  increases our return on share-owner's
equity.
   Our capital  structure and financial  policies have earned  long-term  credit
ratings of "A+" from  Standard & Poor's  and "Aa3"  from  Moody's,  and a credit
rating of "A-1" and "P-1" for our  commercial  paper  programs  from  Standard &
Poor's and Moody's, respectively.
   Our global  presence and strong  capital  position give us easy access to key
financial  markets  around  the  world,  enabling  us to raise  funds with a low
effective cost. This posture,  coupled with the active  management of our mix of
short-term and long-term debt, results in a lower overall cost of borrowing. Our
debt management policies,  in conjunction with our share repurchase programs and
investment activity,  typically result in current liabilities  exceeding current
assets.
   In managing  our use of debt  capital,  we consider the  following  financial
measurements and ratios:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999              1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>               <C>

Net debt (in billions)                  $3.9            $4.5              $3.3
Net debt-to-net capital                  29%             32%               28%
Free cash flow to net debt               72%             52%               57%
Interest coverage                        12x             14x               19x
Ratio of earnings to
  fixed charges                         8.7x            11.6x             17.3x
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

SHARE REPURCHASES
   In October 1996, our Board of Directors authorized a plan to repurchase up to
206 million shares of our Company's common stock through the year 2006. In 2000,
we did not  repurchase  any  shares  under  the 1996  plan.  This was due to our
utilization of cash for an  organizational  Realignment  (the  Realignment),  as
discussed  under the heading "Other  Operating  Charges," and the impact on cash
from the  reduction in  concentrate  inventory  levels by certain  bottlers,  as
discussed  under the  heading  "Volume."  In December  2000,  we  announced  our
intention to reinitiate share repurchases in 2001 under the 1996 plan.
  In 1999, we did not  repurchase  any shares under the 1996 plan due primarily
to our  utilization  of cash for  brand  and  bottler  acquisitions.  Since  the
inception of our initial  share  repurchase  program in 1984 through our current
program as of December 31, 2000, we have repurchased more than 1 billion shares.
This  represents 32 percent of the shares  outstanding as of January 1, 1984, at
an average price per share of $12.46.

DIVIDEND POLICY
   At its February  2001  meeting,  our Board of Directors  again  increased our
quarterly  dividend,  raising  it to $.18 per  share.  This is  equivalent  to a
full-year  dividend of $.72 in 2001, our 39th consecutive  annual increase.  Our
annual  common stock  dividend  was $.68 per share,  $.64 per share and $.60 per
share in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
   In 2000, our dividend  payout ratio was  approximately  77 percent of our net
income,  reflecting the impact of other operating charges and nonrecurring items
recorded in 2000 as well as the impact of the reduction in concentrate inventory
levels by certain  bottlers  during 2000.  Detailed  discussions  of these other
operating  charges  and  nonrecurring  items  follow  under  the  heading "Other
Operating Charges" and in Note 15,  respectively.  A discussion of the inventory
reduction  appears under the heading  "Volume." Our dividend  payout ratio would
have been  approximately 45 percent excluding these items. To free up additional
cash  for  reinvestment  in our  high-return  beverage  business,  our  Board of
Directors  intends to gradually  reduce our dividend  payout ratio to 30 percent
over time.

                                       35




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
- -------------------------
   Our Company uses  derivative  financial  instruments  primarily to reduce our
exposure to adverse  fluctuations  in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates
and, to a lesser  extent,  adverse  fluctuations  in commodity  prices and other
market risks. We do not enter into derivative financial  instruments for trading
purposes. As a matter of policy, all our derivative positions are used to reduce
risk by hedging an underlying economic exposure. Because of the high correlation
between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure,  fluctuations in the
value of the instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value
of  the  underlying  exposure.   The  derivatives  we  use  are  straightforward
instruments with liquid markets.
   Our Company  monitors our exposure to  financial  market risks using  several
objective   measurement  systems,   including   value-at-risk  models.  For  the
value-at-risk  calculations  discussed  below,  we used a historical  simulation
model to estimate potential future losses our Company could incur as a result of
adverse movements in foreign currency and interest rates. We have not considered
the  potential  impact of favorable  movements in foreign  currency and interest
rates on our  calculations.  We  examined  historical  weekly  returns  over the
previous 10 years to calculate our value at risk. Our value-at-risk calculations
do not represent actual losses that our Company expects to incur.

FOREIGN CURRENCY
   We manage most of our foreign  currency  exposures on a  consolidated  basis,
which  allows us to net  certain  exposures  and take  advantage  of any natural
offsets.  With  approximately  72 percent  of 2000  operating  income  generated
outside the United States,  weakness in one particular  currency is often offset
by strengths in others over time. We use  derivative  financial  instruments  to
further reduce our net exposure to currency fluctuations.
   Our Company  enters into forward  exchange  contracts and purchases  currency
options  (principally  Euro and  Japanese  yen) to hedge  firm sale  commitments
denominated  in  foreign   currencies.   We  also  purchase   currency   options
(principally Euro and Japanese yen) to hedge certain anticipated sales. Premiums
paid and realized gains and losses, including those on any terminated contracts,
are  included in prepaid  expenses and other  assets.  These are  recognized  in
income,  along with unrealized  gains and losses,  in the same period we realize
the hedged transactions.  Gains and losses on derivative  financial  instruments
that are designated and effective as hedges of net investments in  international
operations  are  included  in   share-owners'   equity  as  a  foreign  currency
translation adjustment, a component of other comprehensive income.
   Our  value-at-risk   calculation  estimates  foreign  currency  risk  on  our
derivatives  and  other  financial  instruments.   The  average  value  at  risk
represents  the simple  average of quarterly  amounts for the past year. We have
not included in our calculation the effects of currency movements on anticipated
foreign currency denominated sales and other hedged  transactions.  We performed
calculations  to estimate the impact to the fair values of our  derivatives  and
other financial  instruments  over a one-week  period  resulting from an adverse
movement in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result of our calculations, we
estimate with 95 percent  confidence  that the fair values would decline by less
than $45  million  using 2000  average  fair values and by less than $37 million
using  December 31, 2000,  fair values.  On December 31, 1999,  we estimated the
fair value would decline by less than $56 million. However, we would expect that
any loss in the fair value of our derivatives  and other  financial  instruments
would  generally  be offset by an increase  in the fair value of our  underlying
exposures.

INTEREST RATES
   Our Company  maintains our  percentage of fixed and variable rate debt within
defined  parameters.  We enter into interest rate swap  agreements that maintain
the fixed-to-variable mix within these parameters.  We recognize any differences
paid or received on interest  rate swap  agreements as  adjustments  to interest
expense over the life of each swap.  Our Company also enters into  interest rate
cap agreements  that may entitle us to receive from a financial  institution the
amount,  if any, by which our interest payments on our variable rate debt exceed
prespecified interest rates through 2004.
   Our value-at-risk calculation estimates interest rate risk on our derivatives
and other financial instruments. The average value at risk represents the simple
average of quarterly  amounts for the past year.  According to our calculations,
we estimate  with 95 percent  confidence  that any  increase in our net interest
expense due to an adverse  move in our 2000 average or in our December 31, 2000,
interest  rates over a one-week  period would not have a material  impact on our
Consolidated Financial Statements.  Our December 31, 1999, estimate also was not
material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.


PERFORMANCE TOOLS
- -----------------
   Economic  profit  provides a  framework  by which we measure the value of our
actions. We define economic profit as income from continuing  operations,  after
giving  effect to taxes and  excluding  the effects of interest,  in excess of a
computed  capital  charge for average  operating  capital  employed.  We seek to
maximize economic profit by strategically  investing in the high-return beverage
business and by optimizing  our cost of capital  through  appropriate  financial
strategies.


TOTAL RETURN TO SHARE OWNERS
- ----------------------------
   Our Company has  provided  share  owners  with an  excellent  return on their
investments  over the past decade.  A $100  investment in our  Company's  common
stock on December 31, 1990, together with reinvested  dividends,  grew in pretax
value to  approximately  $588 on December 31, 2000, an average  annual  compound
return of 19 percent.

                                       36




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OUR BUSINESS
- ------------
   We  are  the  world's leading  manufacturer,   marketer  and  distributor  of
nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups. Our Company manufactures beverage
concentrates and syrups and, in certain instances,  finished beverages, which we
sell to bottling and canning  operations,  authorized  fountain  wholesalers and
some fountain  retailers.  We also market and distribute  juice and  juice-drink
products.  In addition,  we have  ownership  interests in numerous  bottling and
canning operations.


VOLUME
- ------
   We measure our sales volume in two ways:  (1) gallon sales and (2) unit cases
of finished  products.  Gallon sales represent our primary  business and measure
the  volume of  concentrates  and  syrups we sell to our  bottling  partners  or
customers,  plus the  gallon  sales  equivalent  of the juice and  juice-drink
products sold by The Minute Maid Company. Most of our revenues are based on this
measure of "wholesale" activity.  We also  measure  volume in unit cases,  which
represent  the amount of finished  products we and our  bottling  system sell to
customers.  We believe unit case volume more accurately  measures the underlying
strength of our business  system because it measures trends at the retail level.
In both  measures we include  fountain  syrups sold by the Company to  customers
directly or through wholesalers or distributors.
   Our  worldwide  unit case volume  increased 4 percent in 2000,  on top of a
2 percent  increase in 1999. The increase in unit case volume reflects improving
global  economic  conditions and successful  implementation  of local  marketing
programs.  Our business  system sold 17.1  billion unit cases in 2000.
   In 2000,  certain bottlers reduced their concentrate  inventory levels.  This
was based on a joint review performed by the Company and our bottlers around the
world  in  order  to  determine  the  optimum   level  of  bottler   concentrate
inventories.  The joint review established that opportunities  existed to reduce
the level of concentrate inventory carried by bottlers in various regions of the
world.  During  the  first  half of  2000,  bottlers  in these  regions  reduced
concentrate  inventory  levels,  the majority of which occurred during the first
three months of 2000.


OPERATIONS
- ----------
NET OPERATING REVENUES AND GROSS MARGIN
   In 2000, on a consolidated  basis,  our net operating  revenues and our gross
profit each grew 3 percent.  The growth in net operating  revenues was primarily
due to improved business  conditions and price increases in selected  countries.
This  growth was  partially  offset by the  negative  impact of a stronger  U.S.
dollar and the inventory reduction by certain bottlers.  Our gross profit margin
of 69.7 percent remained unchanged in 2000 compared to 1999.
   In 1999, on a consolidated  basis,  our net operating  revenues and our gross
profit grew 5 percent and 4 percent,  respectively.  The growth in net operating
revenues  was  primarily  due  to  price  increases  in  certain  markets,   the
consolidation  in 1999 of our  bottling  operations  in  India  and our  vending
operations in Japan,  partially  offset by the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar,
and the sale of our previously  consolidated  bottling and canning operations in
Italy in June 1998.
   Our  gross  profit margin  in 1999  decreased  slightly to 69.7 percent from
70.4 percent in 1998. This was primarily due to the consolidation in 1999 of our
bottling operations in India and our vending operations in Japan. Generally, the
consolidation of bottling and vending operations shifts a greater portion of our
net  revenues to the  higher-revenue,  but  lower-margin,  bottling  and vending
operations.

SELLING, ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSES
   Selling expenses  totaled $7,432 million in 2000,  $7,266 million in 1999 and
$6,552  million  in 1998.  The  increase  in 2000 was  primarily  due to  higher
marketing  expenditures  in line with the Company's  unit case volume growth and
the  consolidation  in 2000 of F&N Coca-Cola.  Additionally,  as a result of the
gain  recognized  in the  third  quarter  of 2000 from the  merger of  Coca-Cola
Beverages and Hellenic Bottling Company S.A.,  discussed in "Other Income-Net,"
the  Company  invested   approximately  $30  million  in  incremental  marketing
initiatives  in CCHBC  regions.  The increase in 1999 was  primarily  due to the
temporary  product  withdrawal in Belgium and France and marketing  expenditures
associated with brand-building activities.
   Administrative  and general expenses  totaled $1,688 million in 2000,  $1,735
million in 1999 and $1,659 million in 1998. The decrease in 2000 was primarily a
result of savings realized from the Realignment initiated in 2000, offset by the
consolidation in 2000 of F&N Coca-Cola.  See discussion under the heading "Other
Operating Charges"  for a more  complete  description  of the  Realignment.  The
increase  in 1999 was  primarily  related  to the  consolidation  in 1999 of our
bottling operations in India and our vending operations in Japan.
   Administrative  and  general  expenses,  as a  percentage  of  net  operating
revenues,  totaled  approximately  8 percent  in 2000,  9 percent  in 1999 and
9 percent in 1998.

OTHER OPERATING CHARGES
   During 2000, we recorded total nonrecurring  charges of approximately  $1,443
million.  Of this $1,443  million,  approximately  $405  million  related to the
impairment  of  certain   bottling,   manufacturing   and   intangible   assets;
approximately  $850 million related to the Realignment;  and approximately  $188
million related to the settlement terms of a class action discrimination lawsuit
and a donation to The Coca-Cola Foundation.

                                       37




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   In the first quarter of 2000,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $405
million  related  to the  impairment  of  certain  bottling,  manufacturing  and
intangible  assets,  primarily  within our  Indian  bottling  operations.  These
impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying value of the identified
assets to fair  value.  Fair value was  derived  using cash flow  analysis.  The
assumptions  used in the cash flow analysis were  consistent  with those used in
our internal  planning  process.  The assumptions  included  estimates of future
growth in unit cases,  estimates  of gross  margins,  estimates of the impact of
exchange  rates and  estimates of tax rates and tax  incentives.  The charge was
primarily  the result of our  revised  outlook  for the Indian  beverage  market
including the future expected tax environment.  The remaining  carrying value of
long-lived  assets  within our Indian  bottling  operations,  immediately  after
recording the impairment charge, was approximately $300 million.
   In the first quarter of 2000, the Company  initiated the  Realignment,  which
reduced our workforce around the world and transferred responsibilities from our
corporate headquarters to local  revenue-generating  operating units. The intent
of the Realignment  was to effectively  align our corporate  resources,  support
systems and business  culture to fully  leverage the local  capabilities  of our
system.
   Employees  have  been  separated  from  almost  all  functional  areas of the
Company's  operations, and  certain  activities  have been  outsourced  to third
parties.  The total number of employees  separated as of December 31, 2000,  was
approximately  5,200.  Employees  separated  from the Company as a result of the
Realignment were offered severance or early retirement packages, as appropriate,
which  included both  financial and  nonfinancial  components.  The  Realignment
expenses  included costs  associated with  involuntary  terminations,  voluntary
retirements and other direct costs associated with implementing the Realignment.
Other direct  costs  included  repatriating  and  relocating  employees to local
markets; asset write-downs;  lease cancellation costs; and costs associated with
the  development,  communication  and  administration  of  the  Realignment.  We
recorded total charges of approximately $850 million related to the Realignment.
During the year, the Company achieved approximately $150 million in savings from
the  Realignment.  For a more complete  description  of the costs related to the
Realignment, refer to Note 16 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.
   In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $188
million related to the settlement terms of, and direct costs related to, a class
action discrimination lawsuit. The monetary settlement includes cash payments to
fund  back  pay,  compensatory  damages,  a  promotional  achievement  fund  and
attorneys' fees. In addition,  the Company  introduced a wide range of training,
monitoring and mentoring programs.  Of the $188 million, $50 million was donated
to The  Coca-Cola  Foundation  to continue its broad range of community  support
programs.  Under the terms of the  settlement  agreement,  the  Company  has the
option to rescind the agreement if more than 200 potential class members opt out
of the settlement.
   In the fourth  quarter of 1999,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $813
million.  Of this  $813  million,  approximately  $543  million  related  to the
impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets,  primarily
within our Russian and Caribbean  bottlers and in the Middle and Far East and in
North  America.  These  impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying
value of the identified  assets to fair value.  Fair values were derived using a
variety of  methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates  of sales
proceeds  and  independent  appraisals.  Where cash flow  analyses  were used to
estimate fair values,  key assumptions  employed,  consistent with those used in
our internal planning  process,  included our estimates of future growth in unit
case sales,  estimates of gross margins and estimates of the impact of inflation
and foreign currency fluctuations.  The charges were primarily the result of our
revised  outlook  in  certain  markets  due to  the  prolonged  severe  economic
downturns.  The remaining  carrying value of these impaired  long-lived  assets,
immediately  after  recording the  impairment  charge,  was  approximately  $140
million.
   Of the $813 million, approximately $196 million related to charges associated
with the  impairment  of the  distribution  and  bottling  assets of our vending
operations  in Japan and our bottling  operations  in the  Baltics.  The charges
reduced the carrying  value of these assets to their fair value less the cost to
sell. Consistent with our long-term bottling investment strategy, management has
committed to a plan to sell our ownership interest in these operations to one of
our strategic  business  partners.  The remaining  carrying  value of long-lived
assets within these  operations  and the income from  operations on an after-tax
basis  as of and  for  the  12-month  period  ending  December  31,  2000,  were
approximately $143 million and $21 million, respectively.
   On December 22, 2000, the Company  signed a definitive  agreement to sell the
assets of our vending  operations in Japan. The expected  proceeds from the sale
of the assets are equal to the current  carrying value of the long-lived  assets
less the cost to sell. The sale transaction is expected to close in early 2001.
   Management had intended to sell the assets of our bottling  operations in the
Baltics to one of our strategic business partners.  That partner is currently in
the process of an internal  restructuring  and no longer  plans to purchase  the
Baltics  bottling  operations.  At this time another suitable buyer has not been
identified. Therefore, the Company will continue to operate the Baltics bottlers
as consolidated operations until a new buyer is identified.
   The  remainder  of the  $813  million  charges,  approximately  $74  million,
primarily  related to the change in senior  management  and  charges  related to
organizational  changes  within  the  Europe  and  Eurasia,  Latin  America  and
Corporate  segments.  These charges were incurred  during the fourth  quarter of
1999.
   In the second quarter of 1998, we recorded nonrecurring  provisions primarily
related to the  impairment of certain assets in North America of $25 million and
Corporate of $48 million.


                                     38




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


OPERATING INCOME AND OPERATING MARGIN
   On a consolidated  basis,  our operating income declined 7 percent in 2000 to
$3,691 million.  This follows a decline of 20 percent in 1999 to $3,982 million.
The 2000 results  reflect the recording of nonrecurring  charges,  as previously
discussed  under  the  heading  "Other  Operating  Charges,"  the  impact of the
stronger U.S. dollar,  the  consolidation of F&N Coca-Cola and the effect of the
previously  discussed  reduction of  concentrate  inventory by certain  bottlers
within the Coca-Cola system, which was completed in the first half of 2000.
   The 1999  results  reflect  the  recording  of  nonrecurring  provisions,  as
previously discussed under the heading "Other Operating Charges";  the difficult
economic  conditions in many markets throughout the world; the temporary product
withdrawal in Belgium and France;  the impact of the stronger U.S.  dollar;  and
the  consolidation  in 1999 of our  bottling  operations  in India  and  vending
operations in Japan. Our consolidated operating margin was 18.0 percent in 2000,
20.1 percent in 1999 and 26.4 percent in 1998.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

MARGIN ANALYSIS
<S>                                    <C>             <C>             <C>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2000            1999            1998
Net Operating Revenues
   (in billions)                       $20.5           $19.8           $18.8
Gross Margin                            69.7%           69.7%           70.4%
Operating Margin                        18.0%           20.1%           26.4%

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE
   In 2000,  our interest  income  increased 33 percent due  primarily to higher
average cash balances and higher  interest  rates.  In 1999, our interest income
increased 19 percent  primarily due to cash held in locations outside the United
States earning higher interest rates, on a comparative  basis.  Interest expense
increased 33 percent in 2000 due to both an increase in average commercial paper
balances and higher  interest  rates  throughout  the period.  Average 2000 debt
balances  increased from 1999  primarily due to our  utilization of cash for the
Realignment, as discussed  under the heading "Other Operating Charges,"  and the
impact on cash from the  reduction in  concentrate  inventory  levels by certain
bottlers, as discussed under the heading "Volume." Interest expense increased 22
percent in 1999 due to higher total  borrowings  throughout the period.  Average
1999 debt  balances  increased  from  1998  primarily  due to brand and  bottler
acquisitions during the period.

EQUITY INCOME (LOSS)
   In 2000, our Company's share of losses from equity method investments totaled
$289 million. This includes a nonrecurring charge of approximately $306 million,
which represents the Company's  portion of a charge recorded by Coca-Cola Amatil
to reduce the carrying value of its investment in the Philippines.  In addition,
Panamerican Beverages,  Inc. (Panamco) wrote down selected assets, including the
impairment of the value of its Venezuelan  operating unit. The Company's portion
of this charge was approximately  $124 million.  Also contributing to the equity
losses were nonrecurring charges recorded by investees in Eurasia and the Middle
East.
   These  nonrecurring  charges were partially offset by overall  improvement in
operating  performance  by our portfolio of bottlers and the positive  impact of
lower tax rates on current and deferred taxes at Coca-Cola  Erfrischungsgetranke
AG (CCEAG), a bottler in Germany.
   In 1999, our Company's share of losses from equity method investments totaled
$184 million, reflecting the negative impact of difficult economic conditions in
many worldwide markets,  continued structural change in the bottling system, the
impact of the temporary product  withdrawal in Belgium and France,  and one-time
charges taken by certain  equity  investees. Our Company's  share of the charges
taken by  certain  equity  investees  in  countries  such as  Venezuela  and the
Philippines  was  approximately $22 million.  Our  Company's  share of Coca-Cola
Enterprises Inc's  (Coca-Cola  Enterprises)  nonrecurring  product recall costs
resulting from the product withdrawal was approximately $28 million.

OTHER INCOME-NET
   In 2000, other income-net was $99 million, primarily reflecting the impact of
a gain  related to the  merger of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  and  Hellenic  Bottling
Company  S.A.  during  the third  quarter of 2000.  This  merger  resulted  in a
decrease of our Company's equity  ownership  interest  from  approximately  50.5
percent of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  to  approximately  24 percent of the  combined
entity,  CCHBC.  As a result of our  Company's  decreased  equity  ownership,  a
tax-free  noncash gain of  approximately  $118 million was recognized.  This was
partially offset by exchange losses  recognized in 2000 versus exchange gains in
1999 attributable to the hedging of our resources in Brazil.
   In 1999,  other  income-net  decreased 57 percent to $98  million,  primarily
reflecting  the impact of the gains  recorded on the sales of our  bottling  and
canning  operations  in Italy in June 1998,  partially  offset by an increase in
exchange gains in 1999.

                                       39




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


GAINS ON ISSUANCES OF STOCK BY EQUITY INVESTEES
   At the time an equity investee sells its stock to third parties at a price in
excess of our book value,  our Company's  equity in the underlying net assets of
that  investee  increases.  We  generally  record an increase to our  investment
account and a corresponding gain in these transactions. No gains on issuances of
stock by equity  investees were recorded to the income  statement during 2000 or
1999, and pretax gains of approximately  $27 million were recorded in 1998. This
gain  represents  the increase in our  Company's  equity in the  underlying  net
assets  of the  related  investee.  For a more  complete  description  of  these
transactions, refer to Note 3 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

INCOME TAXES
   Our effective  tax rates were 36.0 percent in 2000,  36.3 percent in 1999 and
32.0 percent in 1998. The change in our effective tax rate in 2000 was primarily
the result of our current inability to realize a tax benefit associated with the
impairment  charges taken in 2000, as  previously  discussed  under the headings
"Other  Operating  Charges" and "Equity Income (Loss),"  partially offset by the
tax-free gain of approximately $118 million, as previously  discussed under the
heading  "Other  Income-Net." Our  effective  tax rates  reflect tax  benefits
derived from significant  operations outside the United States,  which are taxed
at rates lower than the U.S.  statutory rate of 35 percent.  For a more complete
description of our income taxes, refer to Note 14 in our Consolidated  Financial
Statements.
   During  the first  quarter  of 2000,  the  United  States  and  Japan  taxing
authorities entered into an Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) whereby the level of
royalties  paid by Coca-Cola  (Japan)  Company,  Ltd.  (our  Subsidiary)  to our
Company has been  established  for the years 1993 through 2001.  Pursuant to the
terms of the APA, our  Subsidiary  has filed amended  returns for the applicable
periods  reflecting the negotiated  royalty rate. These amended returns resulted
in the  payment  during  the first and  second  quarters  of 2000 of  additional
Japanese  taxes,  the effect of which on both our financial  performance and our
effective tax rate was not material,  due primarily to offsetting tax credits on
our U.S.  income tax  return.  The  majority of the  offsetting  tax credits are
expected to be realized within the next 12 months.

INCOME PER SHARE
   Our basic net income per share decreased by 10 percent in 2000, compared to a
31 percent decline in 1999. Diluted net income per share decreased by 10 percent
in 2000, compared to a 31 percent decline in 1999.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
   In  January  2001,  we  announced  plans  to  further  develop  our  existing
partnership with Nestle S.A., Coca-Cola Nestle Refreshments.  Under the proposed
restructuring,  which is subject to  approval  by  regulatory  authorities,  the
partnership will be renamed Beverage Partners  Worldwide (BPW) and will function
as an entrepreneurial unit dedicated to tapping the growth potential of emerging
beverage segments,  particularly ready-to-drink coffees, teas and beverages with
a healthful positioning.
   In February 2001, our Company and San Miguel  Corporation  (SMC) announced an
agreement in principle  with  Coca-Cola  Amatil to purchase  Coca-Cola  Bottlers
Philippines, Inc. (CCBPI). The consideration for this transaction,  comprised of
Coca-Cola  Amatil  shares,  cash  and the  assumption  of  debt,  is  valued  at
approximately  $1.2 billion.  SMC  will  manage  day-to-day  operations and own
65 percent of the common equity of CCBPI and our Company will own the remaining
35 percent. The completion of this transaction  is subject to Coca-Cola  Amatil
share-owner approval and certain other conditions.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------
   We believe our ability to generate  cash from  operations  to reinvest in our
business is one of our fundamental  financial strengths.  We anticipate that our
operating  activities  in 2001 will  continue  to  provide us with cash flows to
assist in our business expansion and to meet our financial commitments.

FREE CASH FLOW
   Free cash flow is the cash remaining from operations  after we have satisfied
our business reinvestment  opportunities.  We focus on increasing free cash flow
to achieve our objective of maximizing  share-owner value over time. We use free
cash flow along with  borrowings to pay dividends,  make share  repurchases  and
make acquisitions.
   The  consolidated  statements of our cash flows are summarized as follows (in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>
Cash flows provided by
  (used in):
     Operations                      $ 3,585         $ 3,883         $ 3,433
     Business reinvestment              (779)         (1,551)         (1,557)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FREE CASH FLOW                         2,806           2,332           1,876
Cash flows (used in)
  provided by:
     Acquisitions,
       net of disposals                 (386)         (1,870)           (604)
     Share repurchases                  (133)            (15)         (1,563)
     Dividends                        (1,685)         (1,580)         (1,480)
     Other financing activities         (254)          1,124           1,710
     Exchange                           (140)            (28)            (28)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Increase (decrease) in cash          $   208         $   (37)        $   (89)
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       40




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   Cash provided by  operations  in 2000 amounted to $3.6 billion,  an 8 percent
decrease  from  1999  due to the  utilization  of cash for the  Realignment,  as
discussed  under the heading "Other  Operating  Charges," and the impact on cash
from the  reduction  in  concentrate  inventory  levels by certain  bottlers  as
discussed under the  heading  "Volume."  In 1999, cash  provided  by  operations
amounted to $3.9 billion, a 13 percent increase from 1998.
   In 2000,  net cash used in  investing  activities  decreased  by $2.3 billion
compared to 1999.  The  decrease was  primarily  the result of brand and bottler
acquisitions during 1999. For a more complete description of these transactions,
refer to Note 17 in our  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.
   In 1999,  net cash used in investing  activities  increased by $1.3 billion
compared to 1998.  The  increase was  primarily  the result of brand and bottler
acquisitions during 1999 and a decrease in proceeds from disposal of investments
and other assets.
   Total capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (including our
investments  in  information  technology)  and the  percentage  distribution  by
operating segment for 2000, 1999 and 1998 are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>               <C>

Capital expenditures                   $ 733         $ 1,069           $ 863
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
North America{1}                          35%             25%             32%
Africa and Middle East                     2%              2%              3%
Europe and Eurasia                        26%             20%             25%
Latin America                              2%              6%              8%
Asia Pacific                              18%             30%             12%
Corporate                                 17%             17%             20%
================================================================================
{1}Includes The Minute Maid Company

</TABLE>

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

   Our financing activities include net borrowings,  dividend payments and share
issuances and repurchases.  Net cash used in financing  activities  totaled $2.1
billion  in 2000,  $.5  billion  in 1999 and $1.3  billion  in 1998.  The change
between  2000 and 1999 was  primarily  due to the use of excess cash to pay down
outstanding  loans.  The change  between  1999 and 1998 was  primarily  due to a
decrease in treasury stock  repurchases  due to our  utilization of cash for our
brand and bottler acquisitions during 1999.
   Cash  used to  purchase  common  stock  for  treasury  under  the 1996  share
repurchase plan and employee stock award programs  totaled $133 million in 2000,
$15 million in 1999 and $1.6  billion in 1998.  In 2000 and in 1999,  we did not
repurchase any shares under the 1996 share repurchase plan.
   Commercial  paper is our primary source of short-term  financing. On December
31,  2000,  we had $4.5  billion  outstanding  in  commercial  paper  borrowings
compared to $4.9 billion  outstanding at the end of 1999, a $.4 billion decrease
in  borrowings.  The 2000 decrease in loans and notes payable was due to the use
of excess cash to pay down  outstanding  loans.  The Company's  commercial paper
borrowings normally mature less than three months from the date of issuance.  In
1999, as part of our Year 2000 plan, we increased the amount of commercial paper
borrowings with maturity dates greater than three months. The gross payments and
receipts of borrowings  greater than three months from the date of issuance have
been  included in the  Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows.  In addition,  on
December 31, 2000,  we had $3.0 billion in lines of credit and other  short-term
credit  facilities   available,   of  which   approximately   $246  million  was
outstanding.
   On December 31,  2000,  we had $835 million  outstanding  in long-term  debt,
compared to $854 million  outstanding at the end of 1999, a $19 million decrease
in borrowings.

EXCHANGE
   Our international  operations are subject to certain opportunities and risks,
including currency  fluctuations and government  actions. We closely monitor our
operations  in each country and seek to adopt  appropriate  strategies  that are
responsive to changing  economic and political  environments and to fluctuations
in foreign currencies.
   We use approximately 65 functional currencies.  Due to our global operations,
weaknesses in some of these  currencies are often offset by strengths in others.
In 2000,  1999  and  1998,  the  weighted-average  exchange  rates  for  foreign
currencies,  and for  certain  individual  currencies,  strengthened  (weakened)
against the U.S. dollar as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>              <C>

All currencies                            (5)%          Even              (9)%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australian dollar                         (8)%             3%            (16)%
British pound                             (7)%            (2)%             2%
Canadian dollar                          Even           Even              (7)%
French franc                             (14)%            (2)%            (3)%
German mark                              (14)%            (2)%            (3)%
Japanese yen                               4%             15%             (6)%
================================================================================
</TABLE>

     These percentages do not include the effects of our hedging activities and,
therefore,  do not reflect the actual impact of  fluctuations in exchange on our
operating results. Our foreign currency management program mitigates over time a
portion of the impact of  exchange  on net income and  earnings  per share.  The
impact of a stronger U.S. dollar reduced our operating income by approximately
4 percent in 2000 and 1999.

   Exchange gains (losses)-net amounted to $(12) million in 2000, $87 million in
1999 and $(34) million in 1998, and were recorded in other income-net.  Exchange
gains  (losses)-net  includes  the  remeasurement  of  certain  currencies  into
functional  currencies and the costs of hedging certain exposures of our balance
sheet.
   Additional information concerning our hedging activities is presented in Note
9 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       41



FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


FINANCIAL POSITION
- ------------------
   In 2000, the carrying value of our investment in Coca-Cola Amatil  decreased,
primarily as a result of a nonrecurring  charge recorded by Coca-Cola  Amatil to
reduce the carrying  value of its investment in the  Philippines.  The Company's
portion of this charge was $306 million. The carrying value of our investment in
CCHBC decreased due to the impact of foreign currency exchange  partially offset
by a gain of  approximately  $118  million  related to the  merger of  Coca-Cola
Beverages and Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A. during the third quarter of 2000.
The  carrying  value  of  other  investments,  principally  bottling  companies,
decreased  primarily due to a nonrecurring  charge  recorded by Panamco to write
down selected  assets,  including the  impairment of the value of the Venezuelan
operating  unit. The decrease in the carrying value of other equity  investments
was also  impacted  by the  consolidation  in 2000 of F&N  Coca-Cola,  which was
previously  recorded  as  an  equity  investment.  The  increase  in  marketable
securities  and other  assets  is  primarily  due to an  increase  in  marketing
prepayments.  The  increase  in accounts  payable  and  accrued  expenses is due
primarily to the accrual for the Realignment expenses.
   The carrying  value of our investment in Coca-Cola  Enterprises  increased in
1999,  primarily as a result of Coca-Cola  Enterprises' issuance of stock in its
acquisitions  of  various  bottling  operations.   The  carrying  value  of  our
investment  in  Coca-Cola  Amatil  decreased,  primarily  due to the transfer of
approximately  57 million shares of Coca-Cola Amatil to Fraser and Neave Limited
in conjunction with our acquisition of its 75 percent interest in F&N Coca-Cola.
The increase in our  property,  plant and  equipment  was  primarily  due to the
consolidation  in 1999 of our  bottling  operations  in  India  and our  vending
operations in Japan.  The increase in our goodwill and other  intangible  assets
was primarily due to our brand and bottler acquisitions during 1999.


EURO CONVERSION
- ---------------
   In January 1999,  certain member countries of the European Union  established
irrevocable,  fixed conversion  rates between their existing  currencies and the
European Union's common currency (the Euro).
   The  introduction  of the Euro is  scheduled  to be  phased  in over a period
ending  January 1, 2002,  when Euro notes and coins will come into  circulation.
The existing  currencies  are due to be completely  removed from  circulation on
February 28, 2002.  Our Company has been preparing for the  introduction  of the
Euro for several  years.  The timing of our phasing out all uses of the existing
currencies  will comply with the legal  requirements  and also be  scheduled  to
facilitate optimal coordination with the plans of our vendors,  distributors and
customers.  Our work related to the introduction of the Euro and the phasing out
of the other currencies  includes  converting  information  technology  systems;
recalculating  currency  risk;  recalibrating  derivatives  and other  financial
instruments;  evaluating and taking action, if needed,  regarding the continuity
of contracts; and modifying our processes for preparing tax, accounting, payroll
and customer records.
   Based on our work to date, we believe the Euro replacing the other currencies
will not have a material impact on our operations or our Consolidated  Financial
Statements.


IMPACT OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
- ---------------------------------------
   Inflation  affects the way we operate in many  markets  around the world.  In
general,  we are able to increase prices to counteract the inflationary  effects
of  increasing  costs and to  generate  sufficient  cash flows to  maintain  our
productive capability.


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
- ------------------------
   In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities,"  as amended by Statements  137 and 138 in
June 1999 and June 2000, respectively.  These statements, which were required to
be adopted for fiscal years beginning  after June 15, 2000,  require the Company
to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  The statements
also established new accounting rules for hedging  instruments which,  depending
on the  nature  of  the  hedge,  require  that  changes  in the  fair  value  of
derivatives  either be  offset  against  the  change  in fair  value of  assets,
liabilities  or firm  commitments  through  earnings,  or be recognized in other
comprehensive  income  until the hedged  item is  recognized  in  earnings.  Any
ineffective  portion of a derivative's change in fair value must be  immediately
recognized in earnings.
   We adopted the  provisions  of SFAS No. 133, as amended,  on January 1, 2001,
which resulted in an immaterial impact on our consolidated results of operations
and  financial  position.  Although  these  statements  will not have a material
impact  in  our  consolidated  financial  results,  the  requirements  of  these
statements may result in slightly increased  volatility in the Company's  future
quarterly   consolidated   financial  results.   The  Company   implemented  new
information  systems to ensure that we were in compliance with these  statements
upon adoption.


OUTLOOK
- -------
   While  we  cannot  predict  future  performance,   we  believe   considerable
opportunities exist for sustained, profitable growth, not only in the developing
population centers of the world, but also in our most established markets.
   We  firmly  believe  that  the  strength  of  our  brands,  our  unparalleled
distribution system, our global presence, our strong financial condition and the
diversity  and skills of our people give us the  flexibility  to  capitalize  on
growth  opportunities  as we  continue to pursue our goal of  increasing  share-
owner value over time.

                                       42




FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- --------------------------
   Certain written and oral  statements made by our Company and  subsidiaries or
with  the  approval  of an  authorized  executive  officer  of our  Company  may
constitute "forward-looking  statements" as defined under the Private Securities
Litigation  Reform Act of 1995,  including  statements  made in this  report and
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Generally, the words
"believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate,"  "anticipate,"  "project," "will" and
similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not
historical in nature. All statements which address operating performance, events
or  developments  that we  expect  or  anticipate  will  occur in the  future --
including  statements relating to volume growth, share of sales and earnings per
share growth and statements  expressing  general optimism about future operating
results  --  are  forward-looking  statements.  Forward-looking  statements  are
subject to certain risks and  uncertainties  that could cause actual  results to
differ  materially  from our  Company's  historical  experience  and our present
expectations or projections.  As and when made,  management  believes that these
forward-looking statements are reasonable.  However, caution should be taken not
to place  undue  reliance  on any such  forward-looking  statements  since  such
statements  speak  only as of the date when  made.  The  Company  undertakes  no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,  whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
   The  following  are some of the factors that could cause our Company's actual
results  to  differ  materially  from  the  expected  results  described  in  or
underlying our Company's forward-looking statements:

- --   Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital
     expansion plans, share repurchase programs and general operating
     activities.
- --   Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment. These
     include, without limitation, competitive product and pricing
     pressures and our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the
     global market as a result of actions by competitors. While we believe
     our opportunities for sustained, profitable growth are considerable,
     factors such as these could impact our earnings, share of sales and
     volume growth.
- --   Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting
     standards, taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax
     laws and revised tax law interpretations) and environmental laws in
     domestic or foreign jurisdictions.
- --   Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and the
     ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships.
- --   Our ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based
     on projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which
     are more profitable than others. There can be no assurance that we
     will achieve the projected level or mix of product sales.
- --   Interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions,
     including foreign currency rate fluctuations. Most of our exposures
     to capital markets, including interest and foreign currency, are
     managed on a consolidated basis, which allows us to net certain
     exposures and, thus, take advantage of any natural offsets. We use
     derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to
     financial risks. There can be no assurance, however, that our
     financial risk management program will be successful in reducing
     foreign currency exposures.
- --   Economic and political conditions, especially in international
     markets, including civil unrest, governmental changes and restrictions
     on the ability to transfer capital across borders.
- --   Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which also
     depends on economic and political conditions, and how well we are
     able to acquire or form strategic business alliances with local
     bottlers and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production
     facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology.
     Moreover, the supply of products in developing markets must match the
     customers' demand for those products, and due to product price and
     cultural differences, there can be no assurance of product acceptance
     in any particular market.
- --   The effectiveness of our advertising, marketing and promotional
     programs.
- --   The uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and
     uncertainties detailed from time to time in our Company's Securities
     and Exchange Commission filings.
- --   Adverse weather conditions, which could reduce demand for Company
     products.

   The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
- ----------------------
   For additional  information about our operations,  cash flows,  liquidity and
capital  resources,  please refer to the  information  on pages 46 through 68 of
this  report.  Additional  information  concerning  our  operating  segments  is
presented on pages 65 through 67.

                                       43




SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                     Compound                                 Year Ended December 31,
(In millions except per            Growth Rates
share data, ratios and         -------------------       --------------------------------------------------------------
growth rates)                  5 Years    10 Years          2000        1999       1998{2}       1997{2}      1996{2}
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>


SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
Net operating revenues          2.4%        7.1%        $ 20,458    $ 19,805     $ 18,813      $ 18,868     $ 18,673
Cost of goods sold             (2.2)%       4.0%           6,204       6,009        5,562         6,015        6.738
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                    5.0%        8.9%          14,254      13,796       13,251        12,853       11,935
Selling, administrative
 and general expenses           5.2%        8.4%           9,120       9,001        8,211         7,792        7,635
Other operating charges                                    1,443         813           73            60          385
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income               (1.7)%       6.6%           3,691       3,982        4,967         5,001        3,915
Interest income                                              345         260          219           211          238
Interest expense                                             447         337          277           258          286
Equity income (loss)                                        (289)       (184)          32           155          211
Other income (deductions)-net                                 99          98          230           583           87
Gains on issuances of stock
 by equity investees                                           -           -           27           363          431
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before income
 taxes and changes in
 accounting principles         (4.7)%       5.4%           3,399       3,819        5,198         6,055        4.596
Income taxes                   (1.9)%       6.8%           1,222       1,388        1,665         1,926        1,104
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles      (6.1)%       4.6%        $  2,177    $  2,431     $  3,533      $  4,129     $  3,492
=======================================================================================================================
Net income                     (6.1)%       4.6%        $  2,177    $  2,431     $  3,533      $  4,129     $  3,492
Preferred stock dividends                                      -           -            -             -            -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to
 common share owners           (6.1)%       4.8%        $  2,177    $  2,431     $  3,553      $  4,129     $  3,492
=======================================================================================================================
Average common shares
 outstanding                                               2,477       2,469        2,467         2,477        2,494
Average common shares
 outstanding assuming
 dilution                                                  2,487       2,487        2,496         2,515        2,523

PER COMMON SHARE DATA
- ---------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- basic                      (5.7)%       5.6%        $    .88    $    .98     $   1.43      $   1.67     $   1.40
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- diluted                    (5.5)%       5.8%             .88         .98         1.42          1.64         1.38
Basic net income               (5.7)%       5.6%             .88         .98         1.43          1.67         1.40
Diluted net income             (5.5)%       5.8%             .88         .98         1.42          1.64         1.38
Cash dividends                  9.1%       13.0%             .68         .64          .60           .56          .50
Market price on
 December 31,                  10.4%       18.0%           60.94       58.25        67.00         66.69        52.63

TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF
 COMMON STOCK {1}              10.2%       17.2%        $151,421    $143,969     $165,190      $164,766     $130,575
- ---------------------

BALANCE SHEET DATA
- ------------------
Cash, cash equivalents
 and current marketable
 securities                                             $  1,892    $  1,812     $  1,807      $  1,843     $  1,658
Property, plant and
 equipment-net                                             4,168       4,267        3,669         3,743        3,550
Depreciation                                                 465         438          381           384          442
Capital expenditures                                         733       1,069          863         1,093          990
Total assets                                              20,834      21,623       19,145        16,881       16,112
Long-term debt                                               835         854          687           801        1,116
Total debt                                                 5,651       6,227        5,149         3,875        4,513
Share-owners' equity                                       9,316       9,513        8,403         7,274        6,125
Total capital {1}                                         14,967      15,740       13,552        11,149       10,638

OTHER KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES {1}
- --------------------------------
Total debt-to-total
 capital                                                    37.8%       39.6%        38.0%         34.8%        42.4%
Net debt-to-net capital                                     29.4%       32.2%        28.1%         22.0%        31.6%
Return on common equity                                     23.1%       27.1%        45.1%         61.6%        60.8%
Return on capital                                           16.2%       18.2%        30.2%         39.5%        36.8%
Dividend payout ratio                                       77.4%       65.0%        41.9%         33.6%        35.7%
Free cash flow {7}                                      $  2,806    $  2,332     $  1,876      $  2,951     $  2.215
Economic profit                                         $    861    $  1,128     $  2,480      $  3,325     $  2,718
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} See Glossary on page 73.
{2} In 1998, we adopted SFAS No. 132 "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and
    Other Postretirement Benefits."
{3} In 1994, we adopted SFAS No. 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
    and Equity Securities."
{4} In 1993, we adopted SFAS No. 112 "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment
    Benefits."

</FN>
                                       44




SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                          Year Ended December 31,
(In millions except per
share data, ratios and           ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
growth rates)                      1995{2}     1994{2}{3}     1993{2}{4}       1992{2}{5}{6}      1991{2}{6}      1990(2]{6}
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>         <C>            <C>              <C>                <C>             <C>


SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
Net operating revenues             $ 18,127    $ 16,264       $ 14,030         $ 13,119           $ 11,599        $ 10,261
Cost of goods sold                    6,940       6,168          5,160            5,055              4,649           4,208
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                         11,187      10,096          8,870            8,064              6,950           6,053
Selling, administrative
 and general expenses                 7,075       6,459          5,721            5,317              4,628           4,054
Other operating charges                  86           -             50                -                 13              49
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                      4,026       3,637          3,099            2,747              2,309           1,950
Interest income                         245         181            144              164                175             170
Interest expense                        272         199            168              171                192             231
Equity income (loss)                    169         134             91               65                 40             110
Other income (deductions)-net            86         (25)             7              (59)                51              15
Gains on issuances of stock
 by equity investees                     74           -             12                -                  -               -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before income
 taxes and changes in
 accounting principles                4,328       3,728          3,185            2,746              2,383           2,014
Income taxes                          1,342       1,174            997              863                765             632
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles          $  2,986    $  2,554       $  2,188         $  1,883           $  1,618        $  1,382
=============================================================================================================================
Net income                         $  2,986    $  2,554       $  2,176         $  1,664           $  1,618        $  1,382

Preferred stock dividends                 -           -             -                 -                  1              18
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to
 common share owners               $  2,986    $  2,554       $  2,176         $  1,664           $  1,617        $  1,364
=============================================================================================================================
Average common shares
 outstanding                          2,525       2,580          2,603            2,634              2,666           2,674
Average common shares
 outstanding assuming
 dilution                             2,549       2,599          2,626            2,668              2,695           2,706

PER COMMON SHARE DATA
- ---------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- basic                          $   1.18   $    .99        $    .84         $    .72           $    .61        $    .51
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- diluted                            1.17        .98             .83              .71                .60             .50
Basic net income                       1.18        .99             .84              .63                .61             .51
Diluted net income                     1.17        .98             .83              .62                .60             .50
Cash dividends                          .44        .39             .34              .28                .24             .20
Market price on
 December 31,                         37.13      25.75           22.31            20.94              20.06           11.63

TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF
 COMMON STOCK {1}                  $ 92,983   $ 65,711        $ 57,905        $  54,728           $ 53,325        $ 31,073
- ---------------------

BALANCE SHEET DATA
- ------------------
Cash, cash equivalents
 and current marketable
 securities                        $  1,315   $  1,531        $  1,078        $   1,063           $  1,117        $  1,492
Property, plant and
 equipment-net                        4,336      4,080           3,729            3,526              2,890           2,386
Depreciation                            421        382             333              310                254             236
Capital expenditures                    937        878             800            1,083                792             593
Total assets                         15,004     13,863          11,998           11,040             10,185           9,245
Long-term debt                        1,141      1,426           1,428            1,120                985             536
Total debt                            4,064      3,509           3,100            3,207              2,288           2,537
Share-owners' equity                  5,369      5,228           4,570            3,881              4,236           3,662
Total capital {1}                     9,433      8,737           7,670            7,088              6,524           6,199
OTHER KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES {1}
Total debt-to-total
 capital                               43.1%      40.2%           40.4%            45.2%              35.1%           40.9%
Net debt-to-net capital                32.3%      25.5%           29.0%            33.1%              24.2%           24.6%
Return on common equity                56.4%      52.1%           51.8%            46.4%              41.3%           41.4%
Return on capital                      34.9%      32.8%           31.2%            29.4%              27.5%           26.8%
Dividend payout ratio                  37.2%      39.4%           40.6%            44.3%              39.5%           39.2%
Free cash flow {7}                 $  2,460    $ 2,356         $ 1,857        $     875            $   881         $   844
Economic profit                    $  2,291    $ 1,896         $ 1,549        $   1,300            $ 1,073         $   920
=============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{5} In 1992, we adopted SFAS No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
    Benefits Other Than Pensions."
{6} In 1992, we adopted SFAS No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes," by restating
    financial statements beginning in 1989
{7} All years presented have been restated to exclude net cash flows related to
    acquisitions.
</FN>

                                       45



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                     2000                   1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions except share data)
<S>                                             <C>                    <C>

ASSETS
- ------

CURRENT
- -------
Cash and cash equivalents                       $ 1,819                 $ 1,611
Marketable securities                                73                     201
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1,892                   1,812
Trade accounts receivable, less allowances
  of $62 in 2000 and $26 in 1999                  1,757                   1,798
Inventories                                       1,066                   1,076
Prepaid expenses and other assets                 1,905                   1,794
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                              6,620                   6,480
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
- ----------------------------
Equity method investments
   Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.                       707                     728
   Coca-Cola Amatil Limited                         617                   1,133
   Coca-Cola HBC S.A.                               758                     788
   Other, principally bottling companies          3,164                   3,793
Cost method investments, principally
 bottling companies                                 519                     350
Marketable securities and other assets            2,364                   2,124
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  8,129                   8,916
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
- -----------------------------
Land                                                225                     215
Buildings and improvements                        1,642                   1,528
Machinery and equipment                           4,547                   4,527
Containers                                          200                     201
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  6,614                   6,471
Less allowances for depreciation                  2,446                   2,204
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  4,168                   4,267
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS              1,917                   1,960
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                $20,834                 $21,623
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       46




The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                    2000                    1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIABILITIES AND SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY
- ------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>                     <C>

CURRENT
- -------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses           $ 3,905                 $ 3,714
Loans and notes payable                           4,795                   5,112
Current maturities of long-term debt                 21                     261
Accrued income taxes                                600                     769
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                         9,321                   9,856
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM DEBT                                      835                     854
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER LIABILITIES                                 1,004                     902
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                               358                     498
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY
- --------------------
Common stock, $.25 par value
 Authorized: 5,600,000,000 shares
 Issued: 3,481,882,834 shares in 2000;
         3,466,371,904 shares in 1999              870                      867
Capital surplus                                  3,196                    2,584
Reinvested earnings                             21,265                   20,773
Accumulated other comprehensive income and
 unearned compensation on restricted stock      (2,722)                  (1,551)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                22,609                   22,673

Less treasury stock, at cost
   (997,121,427 shares in 2000;
    994,796,786 shares in 1999)                 13,293                   13,160
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 9,316                    9,513
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               $20,834                  $21,623
===============================================================================
</TABLE>

[FN]

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>

                                       47




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                   2000           1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions except per share data)
<S>                                     <C>             <C>             <C>

NET OPERATING REVENUES                  $20,458         $19,805         $18,813
- ----------------------
Cost of goods sold                        6,204           6,009           5,562
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GROSS PROFIT                             14,254          13,796          13,251
- ------------
Selling, administrative and general
 expenses                                 9,120          9,001            8,211
Other operating charges                   1,443            813               73
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME                          3,691          3,982            4,967
- ----------------
Interest income                             345            260              219
Interest expense                            447            337              277
Equity income (loss)                       (289)          (184)              32
Other income-net                             99             98              230
Gains on issuances of stock by
 equity investees                             -              -               27
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES                3,399          3,819            5,198
- --------------------------
Income taxes                              1,222          1,388            1,665
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET INCOME                              $ 2,177        $ 2,431          $ 3,533
================================================================================

BASIC NET INCOME PER SHARE              $   .88        $   .98          $  1.43
DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE            $   .88        $   .98          $  1.42
================================================================================

AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING                2,477          2,469            2,467
- --------------------------
Dilutive effect of stock options             10             18               29
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING
 ASSUMING DILUTION                        2,487          2,487            2,496
================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>

                                       48



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                   2000           1999             1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)
<S>                                     <C>            <C>              <C>

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income                              $ 2,177        $ 2,431          $ 3,533
Depreciation and amortization               773            792              645
Deferred income taxes                         3             97              (38)
Equity income or loss, net of dividends     380            292               31
Foreign currency adjustments                196            (41)              21
Gains on issuances of stock by equity
 investees                                    -              -              (27)
Gains on sales of assets, including
 bottling interests                        (127)           (49)            (306)
Other operating charges                     916            799               73
Other items                                 119            119               51
Net change in operating assets and
 liabilities                               (852)          (557)            (550)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating
 activities                               3,585          3,883            3,433
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisitions and investments,
 principally trademarks
 and bottling companies                    (397)        (1,876)          (1,428)
Purchases of investments and other
 assets                                    (508)          (518)            (610)
Proceeds from disposals of investments
 and other assets                           290            176            1,036
Purchases of property, plant and
 equipment                                 (733)        (1,069)            (863)
Proceeds from disposals of property,
 plant and equipment                         45             45               54
Other investing activities                  138           (179)            (350)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in investing activities    (1,165)        (3,421)          (2,161)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Issuances of debt                         3,671          3,411            1,818
Payments of debt                         (4,256)        (2,455)            (410)
Issuances of stock                          331            168              302
Purchases of stock for treasury            (133)           (15)          (1,563)
Dividends                                (1,685)        (1,580)          (1,480)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in financing activities    (2,072)          (471)          (1,333)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                  (140)           (28)             (28)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Net increase (decrease) during the year     208            (37)             (89)
Balance at beginning of the year          1,611          1,648            1,737
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Balance at end of year               $ 1,819        $ 1,611          $ 1,648
================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>

                                       49



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                            Number of    |                                                       Accumulated
                               Common    |                                       Outstanding           Other
Three Years Ended              Shares    |  Common     Capital     Reinvested     Restricted   Comprehensive    Treasury
December 31, 2000         Outstanding    |   Stock     Surplus       Earnings          Stock          Income       Stock      Total
<S>                             <C>         <C>       <C>           <C>             <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
- -----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         |
(In millions except per share data)      |
                                         |
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1997       2,471    |  $ 861     $ 1,527       $ 17,869        $  (50)      $  (1,351)    $ (11,582)   $ 7,274
                                         |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          3,533             -               -             -      3,533
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -              52             -         52
  Net change in unrealized               |
   gain on securities               -    |      -           -              -             -             (47)            -        (47)
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -              (4)            -         (4)
                                         |                                                                                   -------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                    3,534
                                         |
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options          16    |      4         298              -             -               -             -        302
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -          97              -             -               -             -         97
Stock issued under restricted            |
 stock plans, less amortization          |
 of $5                              1    |      -          47              -           (34)              -             -         13
Stock issued by an equity                |
 investee                           -    |      -         226              -             -               -             -        226
Purchases of stock for treasury   (22){1}|      -           -              -             -               -        (1,563)    (1,563)
Dividends (per share -- $.60)       -    |      -           -         (1,480)            -               -             -     (1,480)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1998       2,466    |    865       2,195         19,922           (84)         (1,350)      (13,145)     8,403
                                         |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          2,431             -               -             -      2,431
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -            (190)            -       (190)
  Net change in unrealized               |
   gain on securities               -    |      -           -              -             -              23             -         23
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -              25             -         25
                                         |                                                                                   ------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                    2,289
                                         |
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options           6    |      2         166              -             -               -              -       168
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -          72              -             -               -              -        72
Stock issued under restricted            |
 stock plans, less amortization          |
 of $27                             -    |      -           2              -            25               -              -        27
Stock issued by an equity                |
 investee                           -    |      -         146              -             -               -              -       146
Stock issued under Directors'            |
 plan                               -    |      -           3              -             -               -              -         3
Purchases of stock for treasury     -    |      -           -              -             -               -            (15)      (15)
Dividends (per share -- $.64)       -    |      -           -         (1,580)            -               -              -    (1,580)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1999       2,472    |    867       2,584         20,773           (59)         (1,492)        (13,160)   9,513
                                         |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          2,177             -               -               -    2,177
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -            (965)              -     (965)
  Net change in unrealized gain          |
   on securities                    -    |      -           -              -             -             (60)              -      (60)
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -             (10)              -      (10)
                                         |                                                                                   -------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                    1,142
                                         |
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options          12    |      2         329              -             -               -               -      331
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -         116              -             -               -               -      116
Stock issued under restricted            |
 stock plans, less amortization          |
 of $24                             3    |      1         166              -          (136)              -               -       31
Stock issued under Directors'            |
 plan                               -    |      -           1              -             -               -               -        1
Purchases of stock for treasury    (2){1}|      -           -              -             -               -            (133)    (133)
Dividends (per share -- $.68)       -    |      -           -         (1,685)            -               -               -   (1,685)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2000       2,485    |   $870     $ 3,196       $ 21,265        $ (195)        $(2,527)      $ (13,293) $ 9,316
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]
{1} Common stock purchased from employees exercising stock options numbered 2.2
    million, .3 million and 1.4 million shares for the years ended December 31,
    2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>

                                       50




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


NOTE 1: ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

ORGANIZATION
   The  Coca-Cola  Company and  subsidiaries  (our Company) is  predominantly  a
manufacturer, marketer and distributor of nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and
syrups.  Operating in nearly 200  countries  worldwide,  we  primarily  sell our
concentrates and syrups to bottling and canning operations, fountain wholesalers
and fountain  retailers.  We also market and  distribute  juice and  juice-drink
products.  We have  significant  markets  for  our products  in all the  world's
geographic  regions. We record revenue when title passes to our customers or our
bottling partners.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION
   Certain   amounts  in  the  prior  years'  financial  statements  have  been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

CONSOLIDATION
   Our Consolidated  Financial  Statements include the accounts of The Coca-Cola
Company and all subsidiaries  except where control is temporary or does not rest
with our Company.  Our  investments in companies in which we have the ability to
exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies,  including
certain investments where there is a temporary majority interest,  are accounted
for by the equity method.  Accordingly,  our Company's share of the net earnings
of these  companies is included in consolidated  net income.  Our investments in
other  companies  are  carried  at cost  or  fair  value,  as  appropriate.  All
significant   intercompany   accounts  and   transactions  are  eliminated  upon
consolidation.

ISSUANCES OF STOCK BY EQUITY INVESTEES
   When one of our equity investees issues  additional  shares to third parties,
our percentage  ownership interest in the investee  decreases.  In the event the
issuance  price per share is more or less than our average  carrying  amount per
share, we recognize a noncash gain or loss on the issuance. This noncash gain or
loss, net of any deferred  taxes,  is generally  recognized in our net income in
the period the change of ownership interest occurs.
   If gains have been previously recognized on issuances of an equity investee's
stock and shares of the equity  investee  are  subsequently  repurchased  by the
equity investee,  gain recognition does not occur on issuances subsequent to the
date of a repurchase  until shares have been issued in an amount  equivalent  to
the number of  repurchased  shares.  This type of transaction is reflected as an
equity  transaction  and  the  net  effect  is  reflected  in  the  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. For specific transaction details, refer to Note 3.

ADVERTISING COSTS
   Our  Company  expenses  production  costs  of  print,  radio  and  television
advertisements as of the first date the advertisements  take place.  Advertising
expenses  included in selling,  administrative  and general expenses were $1,742
million  in 2000,  $1,699  million in 1999 and  $1,597  million  in 1998.  As of
December 31, 2000 and 1999,  advertising costs of approximately $818 million and
$523  million,  respectively,  were recorded  primarily in prepaid  expenses and
other assets and in marketable  securities and other assets in the  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

NET INCOME PER SHARE
   Basic  net  income  per  share is  computed  by  dividing  net  income by the
weighted-average  number of shares  outstanding.  Diluted  net  income per share
includes the dilutive effect of stock options.

CASH EQUIVALENTS
   Marketable  securities  that are highly  liquid and have  maturities of three
months or less at the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents.

INVENTORIES
   Inventories consist primarily of raw materials and supplies and are valued at
the lower of cost or market.  In  general,  cost is  determined  on the basis of
average cost or first-in, first-out methods.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
   Property,  plant  and  equipment  are  stated  at cost  and  are  depreciated
principally by the  straight-line  method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.

OTHER ASSETS
   Our Company  invests in  infrastructure  programs  with our bottlers that are
directed at  strengthening  our bottling  system and increasing unit case sales.
The costs of these  programs are  recorded in other assets and are  subsequently
amortized over the periods to be directly benefited.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
   Goodwill and other intangible  assets are stated on the basis of cost and are
amortized,  principally  on a  straight-line  basis,  over the estimated  future
periods to be benefited (not exceeding 40 years).  Goodwill and other intangible
assets are periodically reviewed for impairment to ensure they are appropriately
valued.  Conditions  that may indicate an  impairment  issue  exists  include an
economic  downturn in a worldwide market or a change in the assessment of future
operations.  In the event that a condition  is  identified  that may indicate an
impairment  issue  exists,  an  assessment  is  performed  using  a  variety  of
methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates of sales proceeds and
independent appraisals. Where

                                       51



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


applicable, an appropriate interest rate is utilized, based on location-specific
economic factors. Accumulated amortization was approximately $192 million and
$154 million on December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

USE OF ESTIMATES
   In conformity with generally accepted accounting principles,  the preparation
of our  financial  statements  requires our  management  to make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the amounts  reported in our financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes  including  our  assessment  of the  carrying  value  of our
investments in bottling  operations.  Although these  estimates are based on our
knowledge of current  events and actions we may undertake in the future,  actual
results may ultimately differ from estimates.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
   In June 1998, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued  Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  133,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments  and Hedging  Activities,"  as amended by Statements  137 and 138 in
June 1999 and June 2000, respectively.  These statements, which were required to
be adopted for fiscal years beginning  after June 15, 2000,  require the Company
to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  The statements
also established new accounting rules for hedging  instruments which,  depending
on the  nature  of  the  hedge,  require  that  changes  in the  fair  value  of
derivatives  either be  offset  against  the  change  in fair  value of  assets,
liabilities  or firm  commitments  through  earnings,  or be recognized in other
comprehensive  income  until the hedged  item is  recognized  in  earnings.  Any
ineffective  portion of a derivative's  change in fair value must be immediately
recognized in earnings.
   We adopted the  provisions  of SFAS No. 133, as amended,  on January 1, 2001,
which resulted in an immaterial impact on our consolidated results of operations
and  financial  position.  Although  these  statements  will not have a material
impact in our annual consolidated  financial results,  the requirements of these
statements may result in slightly  increased  volatility in the Company's future
quarterly   consolidated   financial  results.   The  Company   implemented  new
information  systems to ensure that we were in compliance with these  statements
upon adoption.


NOTE 2: BOTTLING INVESTMENTS
- ----------------------------
COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC.
   Coca-Cola  Enterprises  is the  largest  soft-drink  bottler  in  the  world,
operating in eight countries, and is one of our anchor bottlers. On December 31,
2000, our Company owned approximately 40 percent of the outstanding common stock
of Coca-Cola Enterprises,  and accordingly, we account for our investment by the
equity  method of  accounting.  The excess of our equity in the  underlying  net
assets of Coca-Cola  Enterprises over our investment is primarily amortized on a
straight-line  basis  over  40  years.  The  balance  of  this  excess,  net  of
amortization,  was approximately $438 million on December 31, 2000. A summary of
financial information for Coca-Cola Enterprises is as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                               2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>

Current assets                                          $ 2,631         $ 2,581
Noncurrent assets                                        19,531          20,149
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total assets                                          $22,162         $22,730
================================================================================
Current liabilities                                     $ 3,094         $ 3,614
Noncurrent liabilities                                   16,234          16,192
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities                                     $19,328         $19,806
================================================================================
Share-owners' equity                                    $ 2,834         $ 2,924
================================================================================
Company equity investment                               $   707         $   728
================================================================================

Year Ended December 31,                    2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net operating revenues                  $14,750         $14,406         $13,414
Cost of goods sold                        9,083           9,015           8,391
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                            $ 5,667         $ 5,391         $ 5,023
================================================================================
Operating income                        $ 1,126         $   839         $   869
================================================================================
Cash operating profit{1}                $ 2,387         $ 2,187         $ 1,989
================================================================================
Net income                              $   236         $    59         $   142
================================================================================
Net income available to
 common share owners                    $   233         $    56         $   141
================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]
{1} Cash operating profit is defined as operating income plus depreciation
expense, amortization expense and other noncash operating expenses.
</FN>


   Our net  concentrate  and  syrup  sales to  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were $3.5
billion in 2000, $3.3 billion in 1999 and $3.1 billion in 1998, or approximately
17 percent,  17 percent and 16 percent of our 2000,  1999 and 1998 net operating
revenues,  respectively.  Coca-Cola Enterprises purchases sweeteners through our
Company; however, related collections from Coca-Cola Enterprises and payments to
suppliers  are not  included in our  Consolidated  Statements  of Income.  These
transactions  amounted to $298  million in 2000,  $308  million in 1999 and $252
million in 1998. We also provide  certain  administrative  and other services to
Coca-Cola Enterprises under negotiated fee arrangements.
   Our direct support for certain marketing activities of Coca-Cola  Enterprises
and  participation  with them in  cooperative  advertising  and other  marketing
programs  amounted to  approximately  $766 million in 2000, $767 million in 1999
and  $899  million  in 1998.  Pursuant  to  cooperative  advertising  and  trade
arrangements with Coca-Cola Enterprises, we received approximately $195 million,
$243  million  and $173  million  in 2000,  1999 and  1998,  respectively,  from
Coca-Cola   Enterprises   for  local  media  and   marketing   program   expense
reimbursements.  Additionally,  we committed approximately $223 million in 2000,
$338  million  in 1999 and $324  million  in 1998,  respectively,  to  Coca-Cola
Enterprises  under a  Company  program  that  encourages  bottlers  to invest in
building and supporting beverage infrastructure.

                                       52




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


If valued at the December 31, 2000, quoted closing price of publicly traded
Coca-Cola Enterprises shares, the calculated value of our investment in
Coca-Cola Enterprises would have exceeded its carrying value by approximately
$2.5 billion.

OTHER EQUITY INVESTMENTS
   Operating results include our  proportionate  share of income (loss) from our
equity  investments.   A  summary  of  financial   information  for  our  equity
investments in the aggregate,  other than Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  is as follows
(in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                              2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>             <C>

Current assets                                         $ 5,985         $ 6,652
Noncurrent assets                                       19,030          21,306
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total assets                                         $25,015         $27,958
================================================================================
Current liabilities                                    $ 5,419         $ 6,550
Noncurrent liabilities                                   8,357           8,361
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities                                    $13,776         $14,911
================================================================================
Share-owners' equity                                   $11,239         $13,047
================================================================================
Company equity investment                              $ 4,539         $ 5,714
================================================================================

Year Ended December 31,                    2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net operating revenues                  $21,666         $19,785         $17,975
Cost of goods sold                       13,014          12,085          11,122
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                            $ 8,652         $ 7,700         $ 6,853
================================================================================
Operating income (loss)                 $   (24)        $   809         $   905
================================================================================
Cash operating profit{1}                $ 2,796         $ 2,474         $ 1,998
================================================================================
Net income (loss)                       $  (894)        $  (134)        $   217
================================================================================
</TABLE>
Equity investments include certain nonbottling investees.
[FN]
{1} Cash operating profit is defined as operating income plus depreciation
expense, amortization expense and other noncash operating expenses.
</FN>


   Net sales to equity  investees other than Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were $3.5
billion  in 2000,  $3.2  billion in 1999 and $2.6  billion  in 1998.  Our direct
support for  certain  marketing  activities  with  equity  investees  other than
Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  the  majority of which are  located  outside the United
States, was approximately $663 million,  $685 million and $640 million for 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.
   In July 1999,  we  acquired  from Fraser and Neave  Limited  its  ownership
interest in F&N Coca-Cola as discussed in Note 17. In August 1998, we exchanged
our Korean bottling operations with Coca-Cola Amatil for an additional ownership
interest in Coca-Cola Amatil.
   In June 1998,  we sold our  previously  consolidated  Italian  bottling and
canning operations to Coca-Cola Beverages. This transaction resulted in proceeds
valued at approximately $1.0 billion and an after-tax gain of approximately $.03
per share (basic and diluted).
   If  valued  at the  December  31,  2000,  quoted  closing  prices of shares
actively traded on stock markets, the calculated value of our equity investments
in  publicly  traded  bottlers  other  than Coca-Cola  Enterprises  would have
exceeded our carrying value by approximately $1.0 billion.


NOTE 3: ISSUANCES OF STOCK BY EQUITY INVESTEES
- ----------------------------------------------
   No gains on issuances of stock by equity investees were recorded during 2000.
In the first quarter of 1999, Coca-Cola Enterprises completed its acquisition of
various  bottlers.  These  transactions  were  funded  primarily  with shares of
Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common stock.  The Coca- Cola  Enterprises  common stock
issued  was  valued in an amount  greater  than the book  value per share of our
investment  in Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  As a result of these  transactions,  our
equity in the underlying net assets of Coca-Cola Enterprises  increased,  and we
recorded a $241 million increase to our Company's  investment basis in Coca-Cola
Enterprises.  Due  to  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  share  repurchase  program,  the
increase in our  investment in Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was recorded as an equity
transaction, and no gain was recognized. We recorded a deferred tax liability of
approximately  $95  million on this  increase  to our  investment  in  Coca-Cola
Enterprises.  These transactions reduced our ownership in Coca-Cola  Enterprises
from approximately 42 percent to approximately 40 percent.
   In December 1998, Coca-Cola  Enterprises completed its acquisition of certain
independent  bottling  operations  operating  in parts of Texas,  New Mexico and
Arizona  (collectively  known as the Wolslager  Group).  The  transactions  were
funded  primarily  with the issuance of shares of Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common
stock.  The  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common  stock  issued in exchange for these
bottlers  was valued at an amount  greater  than the book value per share of our
investment in Coca-Cola Enterprises. As a result of this transaction, our equity
in the underlying net assets of Coca-Cola Enterprises increased, and we recorded
a  $116  million  increase  to  our  Company's  investment  basis  in  Coca-Cola
Enterprises. Due to Coca-Cola Enterprises' share repurchase program the increase
in  our  investment  in  Coca-Cola   Enterprises   was  recorded  as  an  equity
transaction, and no gain was recognized. We recorded a deferred tax liability of
approximately  $46  million on this  increase  to our  investment  in  Coca-Cola
Enterprises. At the completion of this transaction,  our ownership in Coca- Cola
Enterprises was approximately 42 percent.
   In September 1998, CCEAG, our bottler in Germany, issued new shares valued at
approximately  $275 million to effect a merger with Nordwest Getranke GmbH & Co.
KG,  another  German  bottler.  Approximately  7.5 million  shares were  issued,
resulting in a one-time noncash pretax gain for our Company of approximately $27
million.  We provided  deferred taxes of approximately $10 million on this gain.
This issuance  reduced our ownership in CCEAG from  approximately  45 percent to
approximately  40 percent.
   In June 1998,  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  completed  its  acquisition  of CCBG
Corporation  and  Texas  Bottling  Group,  Inc.   (collectively  known  as  Coke
Southwest).   The  transaction  was  valued  at   approximately   $1.1  billion.
Approximately  55 percent of the  transaction  was funded  with the  issuance of
approximately 17.7 million shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises common stock, and the
remaining portion was funded through debt and assumed debt. The

                                       53



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common stock issued in exchange for Coke  Southwest was
valued at  an amount  greater than  the book  value per share of our investment
in Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  As a result of this  transaction,  our equity in the
underlying net assets of Coca-Cola  Enterprises increased and we recorded a $257
million increase to our Company's investment basis in Coca-Cola Enterprises. Due
to  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  share  repurchase  program,  the  increase  in  our
investment in Coca-Cola  Enterprises was recorded as an equity transaction,  and
no gain was  recognized.  We recorded a deferred tax liability of  approximately
$101 million on this increase to our investment in Coca-Cola Enterprises. At the
completion  of this  transaction,  our  ownership in Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was
approximately 42 percent.

NOTE 4: ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES
- ---------------------------------------------
   Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                               2000           1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>            <C>

Accrued marketing                                       $ 1,163        $ 1,056
Container deposits                                           58             53
Accrued compensation                                        141            164
Sales, payroll and other taxes                              166            297
Accrued realignment expenses                                254              -
Accounts payable and other accrued expenses               2,123          2,144
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        $ 3,905        $ 3,714
================================================================================

</TABLE>

NOTE 5: SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
- -----------------------------------------------------
   Loans and notes payable consist  primarily of commercial paper issued in the
United  States.  On  December  31,  2000,  we had $4.5  billion  outstanding  in
commercial paper borrowings. In addition, we had $3.0 billion in lines of credit
and other short-term credit facilities  available,  of which  approximately $246
million was  outstanding.  Our  weighted-average  interest  rates for commercial
paper outstanding were approximately 6.7 percent and 6.0 percent at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively.
   These facilities are subject to normal banking terms and conditions. Some of
the  financial  arrangements  require  compensating  balances,  none of which is
presently significant to our Company.


NOTE 6: LONG-TERM DEBT
- ----------------------
   Long-term debt consists of the following (in millions):


December 31,                                             2000             1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6% U.S. dollar notes due 2000                           $   -            $  250
6 5/8% U.S. dollar notes due 2002                         150               150
6% U.S. dollar notes due 2003                             150               150
5 3/4% U.S. dollar notes due 2009                         399               399
7 3/8% U.S. dollar notes due 2093                         116               116
Other, due 2001 to 2013                                    41                50
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          856             1,115
Less current portion                                       21               261
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        $ 835            $  854
================================================================================

   After giving effect to interest rate  management  instruments,  the principal
amount of our long-term debt  that had  fixed  and  variable  interest  rates,
respectively,  was $706 million and $150 million on December 31, 2000,  and $690
million and $425 million on December 31, 1999.  The weighted-average  interest
rate on our  Company's long-term  debt was 5.9  percent  and 5.6 percent for the
years ended  December 31, 2000 and 1999,  respectively.  Total interest paid was
approximately  $458  million,  $314 million and $298  million in 2000,  1999 and
1998, respectively.  For a more complete discussion of interest rate management,
refer to Note 9.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Maturities of long-term debt for the five years succeeding December 31, 2000,
are as follows (in millions):

        2001            2002            2003            2004            2005
<S>     <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>              <C>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        $ 21            $154            $153            $  2            $  1
================================================================================
</TABLE>

   The above notes  include  various  restrictions,  none of which is  presently
significant to our Company.


NOTE 7: COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
- ----------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   Accumulated  other  comprehensive   income  consists  of  the  following  (in
millions):

December 31,                                         2000             1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>             <C>

Foreign currency
  translation adjustment                          $(2,475)        $(1,510)
Unrealized gain on
  available-for-sale securities                       (26)             34
Minimum pension liability                             (26)            (16)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  $(2,527)        $(1,492)
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       54



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   A summary of the components of other comprehensive income for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, is as follows (in millions):


                             Before-Tax        Income               After-Tax
December 31,                     Amount           Tax                  Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>            <C>                    <C>

2000
Net foreign currency
  translation                   $(1,074)        $ 109                  $ (965)
Net change in unrealized
  gain (loss) on available-
  for-sale securities               (90)           30                     (60)
Minimum pension liability           (17)            7                     (10)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                 $(1,181)        $ 146                 $(1,035)
================================================================================


                             Before-Tax        Income               After-Tax
December 31,                     Amount           Tax                  Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1999
Net foreign currency
  translation                   $  (249)        $  59                 $  (190)
Net change in unrealized
   gain (loss) on available-
   for-sale securities               37           (14)                     23
Minimum pension liability            38           (13)                     25
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                 $  (174)        $  32                 $  (142)
================================================================================


                             Before-Tax        Income               After-Tax
December 31,                     Amount           Tax                  Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1998
Net foreign currency
  translation                   $    52         $    -                $   52
Net change in unrealized
  gain (loss) on available-
  for-sale securities               (70)            23                   (47)
Minimum pension liability            (5)             1                    (4)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                 $   (23)        $   24                $    1
================================================================================
</TABLE>


NOTE 8: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
- -----------------------------

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS
   The carrying amounts  reflected in our Consolidated  Balance Sheets for cash,
cash  equivalents,   marketable  equity  securities,  cost  method  investments,
receivables,  loans and notes  payable  and  long-term  debt  approximate  their
respective  fair values.  Fair values are based  primarily on quoted  prices for
those or similar instruments.  A comparison of the carrying value and fair value
of our hedging instruments is included in Note 9.

CERTAIN DEBT AND MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES
   Investments in debt and marketable equity securities,  other than investments
accounted  for  by  the  equity  method,  are  categorized  as  either  trading,
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. On December 31, 2000 and 1999, we had no
trading securities.  Securities categorized as available-for-sale are stated at
fair value,  with  unrealized  gains and losses,  net of deferred  income taxes,
reported  as  a  component  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income.  Debt
securities categorized as held-to-maturity are stated at amortized cost.

   On  December  31,  2000 and  1999,  available-for-sale  and  held-to-maturity
securities consisted of the following (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Gross         Gross          Estimated
                                    Unrealized    Unrealized               Fair
December 31,              Cost           Gains        Losses              Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>               <C>            <C>             <C>

2000
Available-for-sale
  securities
   Equity securities   $   248           $  57         $ (90)           $   215
   Collateralized
     mortgage
     obligations            25               -            (2)                23
   Other debt
    securities              15               -             -                 15
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $   288           $  57         $ (92)           $   253
================================================================================

Held-to-maturity
 securities
  Bank and
   corporate debt      $ 1,115           $   -         $   -            $ 1,115
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $ 1,115           $   -         $   -            $ 1,115
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       55



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Gross         Gross          Estimated
                                    Unrealized     nrealized               Fair
December 31,              Cost           Gains        Losses              Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>               <C>           <C>              <C>

1999
Available-for-sale
  securities
   Equity securities   $   246           $  69         $ (13)           $   302
   Collateralized
     mortgage
     obligations            45               -            (1)                44
   Other debt
    securities               8               -             -                  8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $   299           $  69         $ (14)           $   354
================================================================================

Held-to-maturity
 securities
  Bank and
   corporate debt      $ 1,137           $   -         $   -            $ 1,137
  Other debt
   securities               49               -             -                 49
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $ 1,186           $   -         $   -            $ 1,186
================================================================================

</TABLE>

   On  December  31,  2000 and 1999,  these  investments  were  included  in the
following captions in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                Available-for-Sale            Held-to-Maturity
December 31,                            Securities                  Securities
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>                         <C>
2000
Cash and cash equivalents                  $    -                      $ 1,113
Current marketable securities                  71                            2
Cost method investments,
 principally bottling companies               151                            -
Marketable securities and
 other assets                                  31                            -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           $  253                      $ 1,115
================================================================================


1999
Cash and cash equivalents                  $    -                      $ 1,061
Current marketable securities                  76                          125
Cost method investments,
 principally bottling companies               227                            -
Marketable securities and
 other assets                                  51                            -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          $   354                      $ 1,186
================================================================================
</TABLE>


   The contractual maturities of these investments as of December 31, 2000, were
as follows (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                Available-for-Sale         Held-to-Maturity
                                    Securities                Securities
                                -------------------      --------------------

                                               Fair      Amortized       Fair
                                Cost          Value           Cost      Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>            <C>          <C>        <C>

2001                           $   7          $   7        $ 1,115    $ 1,115
2002- 2005                         8              8              -          -
Collateralized
 mortgage
 obligations                      25             23              -          -
Equity securities                248            215              -          -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               $ 288          $ 253        $ 1,115    $ 1,115
================================================================================
</TABLE>

   For the years ended  December  31, 2000 and 1999,  gross  realized  gains and
losses on sales of available-for-sale  securities were not material. The cost of
securities sold is based on the specific identification method.


NOTE 9: HEDGING TRANSACTIONS AND DERIVATIVE
        FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
- -------------------------------------------

   Our Company uses  derivative  financial  instruments  primarily to reduce our
exposure to adverse  fluctuations  in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates
and,  to a lesser  extent,  to reduce our  exposure to adverse  fluctuations  in
commodity  prices and other market  risks.  When entered into,  these  financial
instruments  are  designated as hedges of underlying  exposures.  Because of the
high  correlation  between the hedging  instrument and the  underlying  exposure
being hedged,  fluctuations in the value of the instruments are generally offset
by  changes  in the  value  of  the  underlying  exposures.  Virtually  all  our
derivatives are "over-the-counter" instruments.  Our Company does not enter into
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
   The estimated  fair values of  derivatives  used to hedge or modify our risks
fluctuate over time. These fair value amounts should not be viewed in isolation,
but rather in relation to the fair values of the underlying hedging transactions
and  investments  and to  the  overall  reduction  in our  exposure  to  adverse
fluctuations in interest rates,  foreign  exchange rates,  commodity  prices and
other market risks.
   The  notional  amounts  of  the  derivative  financial   instruments  do  not
necessarily represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not a
direct  measure  of our  exposure  from  our  use of  derivatives.  The  amounts
exchanged are calculated by reference to the notional amounts and by other terms
of the  derivatives,  such as interest rates,  exchange rates or other financial
indices.
   We have  established  strict  counterparty  credit  guidelines and enter into
transactions only with financial  institutions of investment grade or better. We
monitor  counterparty  exposures daily and review any downgrade in credit rating
immediately.  If a  downgrade  in the credit  rating of a  counterparty  were to
occur, we have provisions requiring

                                       56



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


collateral in the form of U.S.  government  securities for  substantially all
our  transactions.  To mitigate  presettlement  risk,  minimum credit  standards
become more  stringent as the duration of the  derivative  financial  instrument
increases.  To  minimize  the  concentration  of  credit  risk,  we  enter  into
derivative transactions with a portfolio of financial institutions. As a result,
we consider the risk of counterparty default to be minimal.

INTEREST RATE MANAGEMENT
   Our Company  maintains a percentage  of fixed and  variable  rate debt within
defined  parameters.  We enter into interest rate swap  agreements that maintain
the  fixed-to-variable   mix  within  these  parameters.   These  contracts  had
maturities  ranging from one to four years on December 31, 2000.  Variable rates
are  predominantly  linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate. Any differences
paid or received on interest rate swap  agreements are recognized as adjustments
to interest expense over the life of each swap,  thereby adjusting the effective
interest rate on the  underlying  obligation.  Additionally,  our Company enters
into  interest  rate  cap  agreements  that may  entitle  us to  receive  from a
financial  institution the amount, if any, by which our interest payments on our
variable rate debt exceed prespecified interest rates through 2004.

FOREIGN CURRENCY MANAGEMENT
   The purpose of our foreign currency hedging  activities is to reduce the risk
that our  eventual  dollar net cash  inflows  resulting  from sales  outside the
United States will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.
   We enter into  forward  exchange  contracts  and  purchase  currency  options
(principally  Euro and Japanese yen) to hedge firm sale commitments  denominated
in foreign currencies.  We also purchase currency options  (principally Euro and
Japanese yen) to hedge  certain  anticipated  sales.  Premiums paid and realized
gains and losses,  including those on any terminated contracts,  are included in
prepaid  expenses and other assets.  These are recognized in income,  along with
unrealized  gains and losses in the same  period the  hedging  transactions  are
realized.  Approximately  $26  million  of  realized  gains and $85  million  of
realized losses on settled  contracts entered into as hedges of firmly committed
transactions  that have not yet occurred  were deferred on December 31, 2000 and
1999, respectively.  Deferred gains/losses from hedging anticipated transactions
were not material on December 31, 2000 or 1999.  In the unlikely  event that the
underlying transaction  terminates or becomes improbable,  the deferred gains or
losses on the associated derivative will be recorded in our income statement.
   Gains and losses on derivative financial  instruments that are designated and
effective as hedges of net investments in international  operations are included
in  share-owners'  equity  as  a  foreign  currency  translation  adjustment,  a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income.
   The  following  tables  present the  aggregate  notional  principal  amounts,
carrying  values,  fair  values  and  maturities  of  our  derivative  financial
instruments outstanding on December 31, 2000 and 1999 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                              Notional
                             Principal     Carrying         Fair
December 31,                   Amounts       Values       Values      Maturity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>

2000
Interest rate
 management

 Swap agreements
   Assets                       $  150        $   1      $    8       2003
   Liabilities                      25           (1)        (10)      2001-2003
 Interest rate caps
   Assets                        1,600            8           4       2004

Foreign currency
 management

 Forward contracts
   Assets                        1,812           49          74       2001
 Swap agreements
   Assets                           48            2          (3)      2001
   Liabilities                     359           (2)        (19)      2001-2002
 Purchased options
   Assets                          706           18          53       2001-2002
Other
   Assets                           87            2           3       2001
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               $ 4,787        $  77      $  110
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       57



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                        Notional
                       Principal        Carrying        Fair
December 31,             Amounts          Values      Values          Maturity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                      <C>               <C>         <C>           <C>

1999
Interest rate
  management

  Swap agreements
    Assets               $   250           $   2       $   6         2000-2003
    Liabilities              200              (1)         (8)        2000-2003

Foreign currency
  management

  Forward contracts
    Assets                 1,108              57          71         2000-2001
    Liabilities              344              (6)         (3)        2000-2001
  Swap agreements
    Assets                   102               9          16         2000
    Liabilities              412               -         (77)        2000-2002
  Purchased options
    Assets                 1,770              47          18         2000

Other
    Assets                   185               -           2         2000
    Liabilities              126              (8)         (8)        2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        $  4,497           $ 100       $  17
================================================================================

</TABLE>

   Maturities of derivative financial instruments held on December 31, 2000, are
   as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


        2001            2002            2003            2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>  <C>              <C>             <C>            <C>

     $2,878           $ 234           $  75          $1,600
================================================================================
</TABLE>


NOTE 10: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
- --------------------------------------

   On  December  31,  2000,  we  were  contingently  liable  for  guarantees  of
indebtedness  owed by third parties in the amount of $397  million,  of which $7
million  related  to  independent  bottling  licensees.  We do not  consider  it
probable  that we will be required to satisfy these  guarantees.
   We believe our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited, due to
the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations.
   We have committed to make future marketing  expenditures of $772 million,  of
which  the  majority  is  payable  over the next 12 years.  Additionally,  under
certain circumstances,  we have committed to make future investments in bottling
companies.  However,  we  do  not  consider  any  of  these  commitments  to  be
individually significant.


NOTE 11: NET CHANGE IN OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
- -------------------------------------------------------

   The  changes  in  operating  assets  and  liabilities,   net  of  effects  of
acquisitions   and   divestitures   of  businesses   and   unrealized   exchange
gains/losses, are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                        2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>             <C>             <C>

Increase in trade accounts
  receivable                          $  (39)         $  (96)         $ (237)
Increase in inventories                   (2)           (163)            (12)
Increase in prepaid expenses
  and other assets                      (618)           (547)           (318)
Increase (decrease) in
  accounts payable
  and accrued expenses                   (84)            281             (70)
Increase (decrease) in
  accrued taxes                          (96)            (36)            120
Increase (decrease) in
  other liabilities                      (13)              4             (33)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      $ (852)         $ (557)         $ (550)
================================================================================

</TABLE>

NOTE 12: RESTRICTED STOCK, STOCK OPTIONS AND OTHER STOCK PLANS
- --------------------------------------------------------------

   Our Company currently sponsors  restricted stock award plans and stock option
plans.  Our  Company  applies  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25 and
related   Interpretations   in  accounting  for  our  plans.   Accordingly,   no
compensation   cost  has  been  recognized  for  our  stock  option  plans.  The
compensation  cost charged  against income for our restricted  stock award plans
was $6  million  in 2000,  $39  million  in 1999  and $14  million  in 1998.  In
addition,  the Company recorded a charge of $37 million for special  termination
benefits as part of the Realignment  discussed in Note 16. Had compensation cost
for the stock option plans been determined  based on the fair value at the grant
dates for awards  under the plans,  our Company's  net income and net income per
share (basic and diluted) would have been as presented in the following table.

                                       58



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   The pro forma  amounts are  indicated  below (in  millions,  except per share
amounts):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>

Net income
  As reported                        $ 2,177         $ 2,431         $ 3,533
  Pro forma                          $ 1,995         $ 2,271         $ 3,405
Basic net income per share
  As reported                        $   .88         $   .98         $  1.43
  Pro forma                          $   .81         $   .92         $  1.38
Diluted net income per share
  As reported                        $   .88         $   .98         $  1.42
  Pro forma                          $   .80         $   .91         $  1.36
================================================================================
</TABLE>

   Under the amended  1989  Restricted  Stock  Award Plan and the  amended  1983
Restricted Stock Award Plan (the Restricted  Stock Award Plans),  40 million and
24 million shares of restricted  common stock,  respectively,  may be granted to
certain officers and key employees of our Company.
   On December 31, 2000,  30 million  shares were  available for grant under the
Restricted  Stock Award Plans. In 2000,  there were 546,585 shares of restricted
stock granted at an average price of $58.20.  In 1999,  there were 32,100 shares
of  restricted  stock granted at an average  price of $53.86.  In 1998,  707,300
shares  of  restricted  stock  were  granted  at an  average  price  of  $67.03.
Participants are entitled to vote and receive dividends on the shares and, under
the 1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan, participants are reimbursed by our Company
for  income  taxes  imposed  on the award,  but not for taxes  generated  by the
reimbursement  payment. The shares are subject to certain transfer  restrictions
and may be forfeited if a participant  leaves our Company for reasons other than
retirement, disability or death, absent a change in control of our Company.
   In addition,  270,000  shares of three-year  performance-based  and 2,025,000
shares  of five-year  performance-based  restricted  stock were granted in 2000.
The release of these shares is  contingent  upon the Company  achieving  certain
predefined  performance  targets over the  three-year  or five-year  measurement
periods,  respectively.  Participants are entitled to vote and receive dividends
on these shares  during the  measurement  period.  The Company also  promised to
grant  180,000  shares of stock at the end of three years and 200,000  shares of
stock at the end of five  years to certain  employees  if the  Company  achieves
predefined  performance  targets  over  the  three-year  or  five-year  periods,
respectively.  The Company did not grant any  performance-based  stock awards in
1999 or 1998.
   Under our 1991 Stock  Option  Plan (the 1991 Option  Plan),  a maximum of 120
million  shares of our common stock was approved to be issued or  transferred to
certain officers and employees  pursuant to stock options and stock appreciation
rights granted under the 1991 Option Plan. The stock appreciation  rights permit
the holder,  upon  surrendering  all or part of the  related  stock  option,  to
receive  cash,  common stock or a  combination  thereof,  in an amount up to 100
percent of the difference between the market price and the option price. Options
to purchase common stock under the 1991 Option Plan have been granted to Company
employees at fair market value at the date of grant.
   Our stock  option plan (the 1999 Option Plan) was approved by share owners in
April of 1999.  Following  the approval of the 1999 Option Plan,  no grants were
made from the 1991 Option Plan and shares  available  under the 1991 Option Plan
were no longer available to be granted. Under the 1999 Option Plan, a maximum of
120 million  shares of our common stock was approved to be issued or transferred
to certain  officers and employees  pursuant to stock options  granted under the
1999 Option  Plan.  Options to purchase  common stock under the 1999 Option Plan
have been  granted  to Company  employees  at fair  market  value at the date of
grant.
   Generally,  stock options become  exercisable over a four-year vesting period
and  expire 15 years  from the date of grant.  Prior to 1999,  generally,  stock
options became exercisable over a three-year vesting period and expired 10 years
from the date of grant.
   The fair value of each option  grant is  estimated on the date of grant using
the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with the  following  weighted-average
assumptions  used for  grants  in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively:  dividend
yields of 1.2, 1.2 and 0.9 percent;  expected  volatility of 31.7, 27.1 and 24.1
percent;  risk-free  interest  rates of 5.8, 6.2 and 4.0  percent;  and expected
lives  of  five  years  for  2000  and  four  years  for  1999  and  1998.   The
weighted-average fair value of options granted was $19.85, $15.77 and $15.41 for
the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                                       59




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   A summary of stock option activity under all plans is as follows (shares in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   2000                            1999                            1998
                                        -------------------------      --------------------------      ---------------------------
                                                 Weighted-Average                Weighted-Average                Weighted-Average
                                        Shares     Exercise Price      Shares      Exercise Price      Shares      Exercise Price
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>

Outstanding on January 1,                  101            $ 46.66          80             $ 42.77          80             $ 33.22
Granted {1}                                 32              57.35          28               53.53          17               65.91
Exercised                                  (12)             26.00          (6)              26.12         (16)              18.93
Forfeited/Expired {2}                       (9)             57.51          (1)              60.40          (1)              55.48
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding on December 31,                112            $ 51.23         101             $ 46.66          80             $ 42.77
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Exercisable on December 31,                 60            $ 46.57          59             $ 39.40          52             $ 32.41
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares available on December 31,
 for options that may be granted            65                             92                              18
==================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} No grants were made from the 1991 Option Plan during 1999 or 2000.
{2} Shares Forfeited/Expired relate to the 1991 and 1999 Option Plans.

</FN>

   The following table  summarizes  information  about stock options at December
31, 2000 (shares in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                Outstanding Stock Options                               Exercisable Stock Options
                                ---------------------------------------------------                  -------------------------------
                                            Weighted-Average
                                                   Remaining       Weighted-Average                             Weighted-Average
Range of Exercise Prices        Shares      Contractual Life         Exercise Price                     Shares    Exercise Price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>              <C>                      <C>                            <C>           <C>
$10.00 to $20.00                     2             0.8 years                $ 15.37                          2           $ 15.37
$20.01 to $30.00                    11             3.1 years                $ 23.41                         11           $ 23.41
$30.01 to $40.00                    10             4.8 years                $ 35.63                         10           $ 35.63
$40.01 to $50.00                    10             5.8 years                $ 48.86                          9           $ 48.86
$50.01 to $60.00                    65             8.9 years                $ 56.31                         17           $ 57.06
$60.01 to $86.75                    14             7.8 years                $ 65.87                         11           $ 65.90
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$10.00 to $86.75                   112             7.4 years                $ 51.23                         60           $ 46.57
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


NOTE 13: PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
- -------------------------------------------------------

   Our Company sponsors and/or contributes to pension and postretirement  health
care and life insurance benefit plans covering  substantially all U.S. employees
and certain employees in international  locations. We also sponsor nonqualified,
unfunded defined benefit pension plans for certain officers and other employees.
In addition,  our Company and its  subsidiaries  have various  pension plans and
other forms of postretirement arrangements outside the United States.
   Total expense for all benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans,
defined  contribution  pension plans,  and  postretirement  health care and life
insurance  benefit plans,  amounted to approximately  $116 million in 2000, $108
million in 1999 and $119 million in 1998.  In addition,  the Company  recorded a
charge  of  $124  million  for  special  retirement  benefits  as  part  of  the
Realignment  discussed in Note 16. Net  periodic  cost for our pension and other
benefit plans consists of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Pension Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>             <C>             <C>

Service cost                           $  54           $  67           $  56
Interest cost                            119             111             105
Expected return on plan assets          (132)           (119)           (105)
Amortization of prior service cost         4               6               3
Recognized net actuarial (gain) loss      (7)              7               9
Settlements and curtailments               1               -               -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic pension cost              $  39           $  72           $  68
================================================================================

                                                  Other Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                           $  12           $  14           $  14
Interest cost                             29              22              25
Expected return on plan assets            (1)             (1)             (1)
Amortization of prior service cost         1               -               -
Recognized net actuarial (gain) loss      (1)              -               -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic cost                      $  40           $  35           $  38
================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       60



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   The  following  table sets forth the  change in  benefit  obligation  for our
benefit plans (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                     -----------------------------    ----------------------------
December 31,                            2000                1999        2000               1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>                 <C>          <C>                <C>

Benefit obligation at
 beginning of year                   $ 1,670             $ 1,717      $  303             $  381
Service cost                              54                  67          12                 14
Interest cost                            119                 111          29                 22
Foreign currency
 exchange rate changes                   (55)                (13)          -                  -
Amendments                                57                   4          21                  -
Actuarial (gain) loss                     77                (137)         25               (101)
Benefits paid                           (146)                (84)        (17)               (14)
Settlements and
 curtailments                            (67)                  -          13                  -
Special retirement
 benefits                                104                   -          20                  -
Other                                      6                   5           1                  1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligation
 at end of year                      $ 1,819             $ 1,670      $  407             $  303
==================================================================================================
</TABLE>

   The  following  table sets forth the  change in plan  assets for our  benefit
plans (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                           Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                     -----------------------------    ----------------------------
December 31,                            2000                1999        2000               1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>                 <C>            <C>                <C>

Fair value of plan assets
 at beginning of year {1}            $ 1,722             $ 1,516        $ 29               $ 36
Actual return on
 plan assets                               4                 259           2                  1
Employer contribution                     31                  34           -                  5
Foreign currency
 exchange rate changes                   (57)                (20)          -                  -
Benefits paid                           (120)                (69)        (14)               (14)
Settlements                              (38)                  -           -                  -
Other                                     13                   2           -                  1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of plan assets
 at end of year {1}                  $ 1,555             $ 1,722        $ 17               $ 29
==================================================================================================

</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} Pension benefit plan assets primarily consist of listed stocks including
    1,621,050 and 1,584,000 shares of common stock of our Company with a
    fair value of $99 million and $92 million as of December 31, 2000 and 1999,
    respectively.
</FN>

   The projected benefit  obligation,  accumulated  benefit  obligation and fair
value of plan assets for the pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets were $570 million, $480 million and $152 million,  respectively,  as
of  December  31,  2000,  and $556  million,  $434  million  and  $161  million,
respectively, as of December 31, 1999.

   The accrued  pension and other benefit costs  recognized in our  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets are computed as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                     -----------------------------    ----------------------------
December 31,                            2000                1999        2000               1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                   <C>       <C>                <C>

Funded status                         $ (264)               $ 52      $ (390)            $ (274)
Unrecognized net (asset)
 liability at transition                  (6)                  4           -                  -
Unrecognized prior
 service cost                             90                  54          23                  4
Unrecognized net gain                    (89)               (285)        (51)               (91)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net liability recognized              $ (269)             $ (175)     $ (418)            $ (361)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid benefit cost                  $   39              $   73      $    -             $    -
Accrued benefit liability               (374)               (305)       (418)              (361)
Accumulated other
 comprehensive income                     43                  26           -                  -
Intangible asset                          23                  31           -                  -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net liability recognized              $ (269)             $ (175)     $ (418)            $ (361)
==================================================================================================
</TABLE>

   The weighted-average  assumptions used in computing the preceding information
are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Pension Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
December 31,                            2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>             <C>             <C>

Discount rate                              7%              7%          6 1/2%
Rate of increase in
 compensation levels                   4 1/2%          4 1/2%          4 1/2%
Expected long-term
 rate of return on
 plan assets                           8 1/2%          8 1/2%          8 3/4%



                                                  Other Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
December 31,                            2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                          7 1/2%              8%          6 3/4%
Rate of increase in
 compensation levels                   4 3/4%              5%          4 1/2%
Expected long-term
 rate of return on
 plan assets                               3%              3%              3%

</TABLE>

   The rate of increase in per capita costs of covered  health care  benefits is
assumed to be 7 percent in 2001,  decreasing  gradually  to 5 1/4 percent by the
year 2005.

                                       61



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   A one  percentage  point  change in the  assumed  health care cost trend rate
would have the following effects (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                One Percentage                One Percentage
                                Point Increase                Point Decrease
                                --------------                --------------
<S>                                       <C>                          <C>

Effect on accumulated
 postretirement benefit
 obligation as of
 December 31, 2000                        $ 55                         $ (45)

Effect on net periodic
 postretirement benefit
 cost in 2000                             $  8                         $  (6)

</TABLE>


NOTE 14: INCOME TAXES
- ---------------------

   Income before income taxes consists of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>

United States                        $ 1,497         $ 1,504         $ 1,979
International                          1,902           2,315           3,219
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     $ 3,399         $ 3,819         $ 5,198
================================================================================
</TABLE>



   Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended                      United     State &
December 31,                    States       Local    International     Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>          <C>           <C>       <C>

2000
 Current                        $  48        $ 16          $ 1,155   $ 1,219
 Deferred                          (9)         46              (34)        3
1999
 Current                         $ 395        $ 67          $   829   $ 1,291
 Deferred                          182          11              (96)       97
1998
 Current                         $ 683        $ 91          $   929   $ 1,703
 Deferred                          (73)         28                7       (38)
================================================================================
</TABLE>

   We made income tax payments of approximately  $1,327 million,  $1,404 million
and  $1,559  million  in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  During  the first
quarter of 2000, the United States and Japan taxing authorities  entered into an
Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) whereby the level of royalties paid by Coca-Cola
(Japan)  Company,  Ltd. (our Subsidiary) to our Company has been established for
the years 1993 through  2001.  Pursuant to the terms of the APA, our  Subsidiary
has filed amended returns for the applicable  periods  reflecting the negotiated
royalty rate. These amended returns resulted in the payment during the first and
second  quarters of 2000 of additional  Japanese  taxes,  the effect of which on
both our financial performance and our effective tax rate was not material,  due
primarily to offsetting tax credits on our U.S. income tax return.

   A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal rate and effective rates is as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                 2000            1999            1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                    <C>              <C>             <C>
Statutory U.S. federal rate             35.0%           35.0%           35.0%
State income taxes-net of
 federal benefit                          .8             1.0             1.0
Earnings in jurisdictions taxed
 at rates different from the
 statutory U.S. federal rate            (4.0)           (6.0)           (4.3)
Equity income or loss {1}                2.9             1.6               -
Other operating charges {2}              1.9             5.3               -
Other-net                                (.6)            (.6)             .3
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        36.0%           36.3%           32.0%
================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} Includes charges by equity investees. See Note 15.
{2} Includes charges related to certain bottling, manufacturing and intangible
    assets.  See Note 15.
</FN>

   Our  effective  tax  rate  reflects  the  tax  benefit  derived  from  having
significant  operations  outside the United States that are taxed at rates lower
than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent.
   In 2000, management concluded that it was more likely than not that local tax
benefits  would not be realized  with  respect to  principally  all of the items
discussed  in Note 15,  with the  exception  of  approximately  $188  million of
charges  related  to the  settlement  terms  of a  class  action  discrimination
lawsuit.  Accordingly,  valuation  allowances were recorded to offset the future
tax  benefit  of  these  nonrecurring  items  resulting  in an  increase  in our
effective  tax rate.  Excluding  the  impact of these  nonrecurring  items,  the
effective tax rate on operations for the year was slightly more than 30 percent.
   In 1999, the Company recorded a charge of $813 million,  primarily reflecting
the impairment of certain  bottling,  manufacturing and intangible  assets.  For
some  locations  with impaired  assets,  management  concluded  that it was more
likely  than not that no local tax benefit  would be  realized.  Accordingly,  a
valuation  allowance  was recorded  offsetting  the future tax benefits for such
locations.  This  resulted in an increase  in our  effective  tax rate for 1999.
Excluding the impact,  the Company's effective tax rate for 1999 would have been
31.0 percent.
   We have provided  appropriate  U.S. and  international  taxes for earnings of
subsidiary  companies  that are  expected to be remitted to the parent  company.
Exclusive  of amounts  that would  result in little or no tax if  remitted,  the
cumulative  amount of unremitted  earnings from our  international  subsidiaries
that is expected to be indefinitely reinvested was approximately $3.7 billion on
December  31,  2000.  The  taxes  that  would be paid upon  remittance  of these
indefinitely  reinvested  earnings  are  approximately  $1.3  billion,  based on
current tax laws.

                                       62



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   The tax effects of temporary  differences and carryforwards that give rise to
deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                            2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>

Deferred tax assets:
  Benefit plans                                       $  261          $  311
  Liabilities and reserves                               456             169
  Net operating loss carryforwards                       375             196
  Other operating charges                                321             254
  Other                                                  126             272
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gross deferred tax assets                            1,539           1,202
  Valuation allowance                                   (641)           (443)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      $  898          $  759
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Property, plant and equipment                       $  425          $  320
  Equity investments                                     228             397
  Intangible assets                                      224             197
  Other                                                  129              99
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      $1,006          $1,013
================================================================================
Net deferred tax asset (liability){1}                 $ (108)         $ (254)
================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} Deferred  tax assets of $250 million and $244 million have been  included
    in the consolidated balance sheet caption "Marketable securities and other
    assets" at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
</FN>


   On December  31, 2000 and 1999,  we had  approximately  $143 million and $233
million,   respectively,   of  gross  deferred  tax  assets,  net  of  valuation
allowances, located in countries outside the United States.
   On December 31, 2000,  we had $968  million of operating  loss  carryforwards
available to reduce future taxable income of certain international subsidiaries.
Loss  carryforwards of $635 million must be utilized within the next five years;
$333 million can be utilized over an indefinite  period.  A valuation  allowance
has been provided for a portion of the deferred tax assets related to these loss
carryforwards.


NOTE 15: NONRECURRING ITEMS
- ---------------------------
   In the first  quarter of 2000,  we  recorded  charges of  approximately  $405
million  related  to the  impairment  of  certain  bottling,  manufacturing  and
intangible  assets,  primarily  within our  Indian  bottling  operations.  These
impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying value of the identified
assets to fair  value.  Fair value was  derived  using cash flow  analysis.  The
assumptions  used in the cash flow analysis were  consistent  with those used in
our internal  planning  process.  The assumptions  included  estimates of future
growth in unit cases,  estimates  of gross  margins,  estimates of the impact of
exchange  rates and  estimates of tax rates and tax  incentives.  The charge was
primarily  the result of our  revised  outlook  for the Indian  beverage  market
including the future expected tax environment.  The remaining  carrying value of
long-lived  assets  within our Indian  bottling  operations,  immediately  after
recording the impairment charge, was approximately $300 million.
   In the third  quarter of 2000,  we  recorded a gain  related to the merger of
Coca-Cola  Beverages and Hellenic  Bottling  Company.  This merger resulted in a
decrease of our Company's equity  ownership  interest  from  approximately  50.5
percent of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  to  approximately  24 percent of the  combined
entity,  CCHBC.  As a result  of our  Company's decreased  equity  ownership,  a
tax-free noncash gain of approximately $118 million was recognized.
   In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $188
million related to the settlement terms of, and direct costs related to, a class
action discrimination lawsuit. The monetary settlement includes cash payments to
fund  back  pay,  compensatory  damages,  a  promotional  achievement  fund  and
attorneys' fees. In addition,  the Company  introduced a wide range of training,
monitoring and mentoring programs.  Of the $188 million, $50 million was donated
to The  Coca-Cola  Foundation  to continue its broad range of community  support
programs.  Under the terms of the  settlement  agreement,  the  Company  has the
option to rescind the agreement if more than 200 potential class members opt out
of the settlement.
   In 2000,  the Company also recorded a  nonrecurring  charge of  approximately
$306 million,  which  represents  the Company's portion of a charge  recorded by
Coca-Cola  Amatil  to  reduce  the  carrying  value  of  its  investment  in the
Philippines.  In addition,  Panamco  wrote down selected  assets,  including the
impairment of the value of its Venezuelan  operating unit. The Company's portion
of this charge was approximately  $124 million.  Also contributing to the equity
losses were nonrecurring charges recorded by investees in Eurasia and the Middle
East.  These  nonrecurring  charges were partially offset by the impact of lower
tax rates related to current and deferred taxes at CCEAG.
   In the fourth  quarter of 1999,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $813
million.  Of this  $813  million,  approximately  $543  million  related  to the
impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets,  primarily
within our Russian and Caribbean  bottlers and in the Middle and Far East and in
North  America.  These  impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying
value of the identified  assets to fair value.  Fair values were derived using a
variety of  methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates  of sales
proceeds  and  independent  appraisals.  Where cash flow  analyses  were used to
estimate fair values,  key assumptions  employed,  consistent with those used in
our internal  planning  process  included our estimates of future growth in unit
case sales,  estimates of gross margins and estimates of the impact of inflation
and foreign currency fluctuations.  The charges were primarily the result of our
revised  outlook  in  certain  markets  due to  the  prolonged  severe  economic
downturns.  The remaining  carrying value of these impaired  long-lived  assets,
immediately  after  recording the  impairment  charge,  was  approximately  $140
million.

                                       63



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


   Of the $813 million, approximately $196 million related to charges associated
with the  impairment  of the  distribution  and  bottling  assets of our vending
operations  in Japan and our bottling  operations  in the  Baltics.  The charges
reduced the carrying  value of these assets to their fair value less the cost to
sell. Consistent with our long-term bottling investment strategy, management has
committed to a plan to sell our ownership interest in these operations to one of
our strategic  business  partners.  The remaining  carrying  value of long-lived
assets within these  operations  and the income from  operations on an after-tax
basis  as of and  for  the  12-month  period  ending  December  31,  2000,  were
approximately $143 million and $21 million, respectively.
   On December 22, 2000, the Company  signed a definitive  agreement to sell the
assets of our vending  operations in Japan. The expected  proceeds from the sale
of the assets are equal to the current  carrying value of the long-lived  assets
less the cost to sell. The sale transaction is expected to close in early 2001.
   Management had intended to sell the assets of our bottling  operations in the
Baltics to one of our strategic business partners.  That partner is currently in
the process of an internal  restructuring  and no longer  plans to purchase  the
Baltics  bottling  operations.  At this time another suitable buyer has not been
identified. Therefore, the Company will continue to operate the Baltics bottlers
as consolidated operations until a new buyer is identified.
   The  remainder  of the  $813  million  charges,  approximately  $74  million,
primarily  related to the change in senior  management  and  charges  related to
organizational  changes  within  the  Europe  and  Eurasia,  Latin  America  and
Corporate  segments.  These charges were incurred  during the fourth  quarter of
1999.
   In the second  quarter of 1998, we recorded a nonrecurring  charge  primarily
related to the  impairment of certain assets in North America of $25 million and
Corporate of $48 million.


NOTE 16: REALIGNMENT COSTS
- --------------------------

   In January 2000, our  Company initiated a major  organizational  Realignment
intended to put more  responsibility,  accountability and resources in the hands
of  local  business  units of the  Company  so as to fully  leverage  the  local
capabilities of our system.
   Under the Realignment,  employees were separated  from  almost all functional
areas of the Company's  operations,  and certain activities have been outsourced
to third  parties.  The total number of  employees  separated as of December 31,
2000, was approximately 5,200.  Employees separated from the Company as a result
of the  Realignment  were offered  severance or early  retirement  packages,  as
appropriate,  which included both  financial and  nonfinancial  components.  The
Realignment  expenses  included costs associated with involuntary  terminations,
voluntary  retirements and other direct costs  associated with  implementing the
Realignment.  Other direct costs included  repatriating and relocating employees
to local  markets;  asset  write-downs;  lease  cancellation  costs;  and  costs
associated  with  the  development,  communication  and  administration  of  the
Realignment.
   The table  below  summarizes accrued Realignment expenses and amounts charged
against the accrual as of and for the year ended December 31, 2000 (in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                                                Noncash                 Accrued
                                                                                                    and                 Balance
REALIGNMENT SUMMARY                             Expenses                Payments               Exchange             December 31
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>                    <C>                     <C>                     <C>
Employees involuntarily separated
  Severance pay and benefits                       $ 216                  $ (123)                 $  (2)                  $  91
  Outside services - legal,
   outplacement, consulting                           33                     (25)                     -                       8
  Other - including asset write-downs                 81                     (37)                    (7)                     37
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   $ 330                  $ (185)                 $  (9)                  $ 136
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Employees voluntarily separated
  Special retirement pay and benefits              $ 353                  $ (174)                 $   -                   $ 179
  Outside services - legal,
   outplacement, consulting                            6                      (3)                     -                       3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   $ 359                  $ (177)                 $   -                   $ 182
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other direct costs                                 $ 161                  $  (92)                 $  (9)                  $  60
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total Realignment                                  $ 850                  $ (454)                 $  (18)                 $ 378{1}
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} Accrued realignment expenses of approximately $254 million and $124 million
    have been included in the consolidated balance sheet captions "Accounts
    payable and accrued expenses" and "Other liabilities," respectively.
</FN>

                                       64




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

NOTE 17: ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS
- -------------------------------------
   In separate transactions during the first half of 2000, our Company purchased
two bottlers in Brazil, Companhia Mineira de Refrescos,  S.A., and Refrigerantes
Minas Gerais Ltda. In October 2000, the Company  purchased a 58 percent interest
in Paresa,  a bottler located in Paraguay.  In December 2000, the Company made a
tender offer for the  remaining  42 percent of the shares in Paresa.  In January
2001, we completed the tender offer. We currently own  approximately  95 percent
of Paresa.  During 2000,  our  Company's  acquisition  and  investment  activity
totaled approximately $400 million.
   During  1999,  the  Company's  acquisition  and  investment  activity,  which
included  the  acquisition  of beverage  brands from Cadbury Schweppes  plc and
investments in the bottling operations of Coca-Cola Embonor S.A., F&N Coca-Cola,
and Coca-Cola West Japan Company,  Ltd., totaled $1.9 billion.  During 1998, the
Company's acquisition and investment activity totaled $1.4 billion.  None of the
acquisitions and investment activity in 1998 was individually significant.
   In July 1999, we completed the acquisition of Cadbury Schweppes plc  beverage
brands in 155 countries for  approximately  $700 million.  These brands included
Schweppes, Canada Dry, Dr Pepper, Crush and certain regional brands. Among the
countries  excluded from this transaction were the United States,  South Africa,
Norway, Switzerland and the European Union member nations (other than the United
Kingdom, Ireland and Greece). In September 1999, we completed the acquisition of
Cadbury Schweppes beverage brands in New Zealand for approximately $20 million.
Also in September 1999, in a separate  transaction  valued at approximately $250
million,  we acquired the carbonated  soft-drink  business of Cadbury  Schweppes
(South  Africa)  Limited  in  South  Africa,  Botswana,   Namibia,  Lesotho  and
Swaziland.
   The  acquisitions  and  investments  have been  accounted  for by either  the
purchase,  equity or cost method of accounting,  as  appropriate.  Their results
have  been  included  in  the  Consolidated   Financial  Statements  from  their
respective dates of acquisition using the appropriate method of accounting.  Had
the results of these  businesses  been  included in operations  commencing  with
1998, the reported results would not have been materially affected.


NOTE 18:  OPERATING SEGMENTS
- ----------------------------

   Effective  January 1,  2000,  two of our Company's  operating  segments  were
geographically  reconfigured  and  renamed.  The  Middle  East and North  Africa
Division was added to the Africa Group, which changed its name to the Africa and
Middle  East  Group.  At the same time the Middle and Far East  Group,  less the
relocated  Middle East and North Africa  Division,  changed its name to the Asia
Pacific  Group.  In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  the Greater  Europe  Group was
renamed  the  Europe  and  Eurasia   Group.   Prior  period  amounts  have  been
reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
   Our Company's  operating structure includes the following operating segments:
the North  America Group  (including  The Minute Maid  Company);  the Africa and
Middle East Group;  the Europe and Eurasia Group;  the Latin America Group;  the
Asia Pacific Group;  and Corporate.  The North America Group includes the United
States and Canada.


SEGMENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
   The  business  of  our  Company  is  nonalcoholic  ready-to-drink  beverages,
principally  soft drinks,  but also a variety of  noncarbonated  beverages.  Our
operating segments derive  substantially all their revenues from the manufacture
and sale of beverage  concentrates  and syrups with the  exception of Corporate,
which  derives  its  revenues  primarily  from the  licensing  of our  brands in
connection with merchandise.

METHOD OF DETERMINING SEGMENT PROFIT OR LOSS
   Management  evaluates the performance of its operating segments separately to
individually  monitor the different  factors  affecting  financial  performance.
Segment  profit  or loss  includes  substantially  all  the  segment's costs  of
production, distribution and administration. Our Company manages income taxes on
a global basis.  Thus, we evaluate segment  performance  based on profit or loss
before  income  taxes,  exclusive  of any  significant  gains or  losses  on the
disposition of investments or other assets.  Our Company  typically  manages and
evaluates equity investments and related income on a segment level.  However, we
manage  certain  significant  investments,  such  as  our  equity  interests  in
Coca-Cola Enterprises, at the Corporate segment. We manage financial costs, such
as exchange gains and losses and interest income and expense,  on a global basis
at the Corporate segment.

                                       65



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


Information about our Company's operations by operating segment is as follows
(in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     North         Africa &       Europe         Latin          Asia
                                   America      Middle East    & Eurasia       America       Pacific      Corporate    Consolidated
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>

2000
Net operating revenues             $ 7,870          $   729      $ 4,377       $ 2,174        $ 5,159 {1}   $   149        $ 20,458
Operating income {2}                 1,406               80        1,415  {3}      916            956        (1,082) {4}      3,691
Interest income                                                                                                 345             345
Interest expense                                                                                                447             447
Equity income (loss) {5}                 3              (73)          35           (75)          (290)          111            (289)
Identifiable operating assets        4,271              622        1,408         1,545          1,953         5,270  {6}     15,069
Investments {7}                        141              338        1,757         1,767            993           769           5,765
Capital expenditures                   259               11          194            16            132           121             733
Depreciation and amortization          244               54           64            96            211           104             773
Income before income taxes           1,410               (6)       1,568  {8}      866            651        (1,090)          3,399
====================================================================================================================================
1999
Net operating revenues             $ 7,519          $   792      $ 4,540       $ 1,961        $ 4,828 {1}   $   165        $ 19,805
Operating income {9}                 1,436               67        1,068           840          1,194          (623)          3,982
Interest income                                                                                                 260             260
Interest expense                                                                                                337             337
Equity income (loss)                    (5)             (29)         (73)           (5)           (37)          (35)           (184)
Identifiable operating assets        3,591              672        1,624         1,653          2,439         4,852  {6}     14,831
Investments {7}                        139              333        1,870         1,833          1,837           780           6,792
Capital expenditures                   269               22          218            67            317           176           1,069
Depreciation and amortization          263               47           80            96            184           122             792
Income before income taxes           1,432               24          984           846          1,143          (610)          3,819
====================================================================================================================================
1998
Net operating revenues              $6,934          $   780      $ 4,827       $ 2,240        $ 3,856 {1}    $  176        $ 18,813
Operating income                     1,383 {10}         223        1,655         1,056          1,343          (693){10}      4,967
Interest income                                                                                                 219             219
Interest expense                                                                                                277             277
Equity income (loss)                    (1)             (21)         (47)           68            (38)           71              32
Identifiable operating assets        3,467              541        1,711         1,364          1,595         3,781 {6}      12,459
Investments {7}                        141              312        2,010         1,629          1,979           615           6,686
Capital expenditures                   274               22          216            72            104           175             863
Depreciation and amortization          231               40           92            93            101            88             645
Income before income taxes           1,392              192        1,577         1,132          1,289          (384)          5,198
====================================================================================================================================
Intercompany transfers between operating segments are not material.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.

</TABLE>
[FN]

{1} Japan revenues  represent  approximately 75 percent of total Asia Pacific
operating  segment  revenues related to 2000, and 80 percent related to 1999 and
1998.

{2}  Operating  income  was  reduced by $3 million  for North  America,  $397
million  for Asia  Pacific  and $5 million  for  Corporate  related to the other
operating  charges recorded for asset  impairments in the first quarter of 2000.
Operating income was also reduced by $128 million for North America, $64 million
for Africa and Middle East, $174 million for Europe and Eurasia, $63 million for
Latin America, $127 million for Asia Pacific and $294 million for Corporate as a
result of other operating charges associated with the Realignment.

{3} Operating income was reduced by $30 million for Europe and Eurasia due to
incremental marketing expenses in Central Europe.

{4} Operating income was reduced by $188 million for Corporate related to the
settlement  terms of a  discrimination  lawsuit and a donation to The  Coca-Cola
Foundation.

{5}  Equity  income  (loss) was  reduced by $9 million  for Africa and Middle
East,  $26 million for Europe and Eurasia,  $124  million for Latin  America and
$306  million  for  Asia  Pacific,  as a  result  of  our  Company's portion  of
nonrecurring charges recorded by equity investees.

{6}  Corporate  identifiable  operating  assets are composed  principally  of
marketable  securities,  finance  subsidiary  receivables,  goodwill  and  other
intangible assets and fixed assets.

{7} Principally equity investments in bottling companies.

{8} Income  before taxes was increased by $118 million for Europe and Eurasia
as a result of a gain  related  to the  merger of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  plc and
Hellenic Bottling Company S.A.

{9}  Operating  income was  reduced by $34  million  for North  America,  $79
million for Africa and Middle East,  $430  million for Europe and  Eurasia,  $35
million for Latin  America,  $176  million for Asia  Pacific and $59 million for
Corporate  related to the other operating charges recorded in the fourth quarter
of 1999.

{10}  Operating  income was reduced by $25 million for North  America and $48
million  for  Corporate  for  provisions  related to the  impairment  of certain
assets.
</FN>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Compound Growth Rates         North      Africa &     Europe &         Latin            Asia
Ending 2000                 America   Middle East      Eurasia       America         Pacific           Consolidated
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                            <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>             <C>                    <C>

Net operating revenues
   5 years                      7.3%           .1%        (6.1)%         2.2%            6.9%                   2.4%
   10 years                     6.4%         11.6%         3.5%         10.2%           11.1%                   7.1%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income
   5 years                     10.6%        (19.4)%         .3%          1.6%           (5.4)%                 (1.7)%
   10 years                    11.4%         (3.0)%        6.1%         11.9%            4.2%                   6.6%
=====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       66




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               [pie charts]

NET OPERATING REVENUES BY OPEATING SEGMENT {1}



                                              2000          1999        1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>         <C>

North America                                   39%           38%         37%
Europe & Eurasia                                21%           23%         26%
Latin America                                   11%           10%         12%
Asia Pacific                                    25%           25%         21%
Africa & Middle East                             4%            4%          4%




OPERATING INCOME BY OPERATING SEGMENT {1}

                                              2000          1999        1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>         <C>

North America                                   29%           31%         24%
Europe & Eurasia                                30%           23%         29%
Latin America                                   19%           18%         19%
Asia Pacific                                    20%           26%         24%
Africa & Middle East                             2%            2%          4%

</TABLE>

{1}  Charts and percentages are calculated excluding Corporate.



================================================================================

Report of Independent Auditors

BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHARE OWNERS
The Coca-Cola Company

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Coca-Cola
Company  and  subsidiaries  as of December  31,  2000 and 1999,  and the related
consolidated statements of income, share-owners' equity, and cash flows for each
of the three  years in the period  ended  December  31,  2000.  These  financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.
   We conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.
   In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position of The Coca-Cola
Company and  subsidiaries  at December 31, 2000 and 1999,  and the  consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  December 31, 2000, in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States.




                                        /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Atlanta, Georgia
January 26, 2001

                                       67



The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

(In millions except per
 share data)                First     Second      Third     Fourth     Full
Year Ended December 31,    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Year
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>       <C>

2000
Net operating revenues    $ 4,391     $ 5,621     $ 5,543    $ 4,903   $ 20,458
Gross profit                2,993       3,944       3,807      3,510     14,254
Net income (loss)             (58)        926       1,067        242      2,177
Basic net income
 (loss) per share            (.02)        .37         .43        .10       .88
Diluted net income
 (loss) per share            (.02)        .37         .43        .10       .88
================================================================================

1999
Net operating revenues    $ 4,400     $ 5,335     $ 5,139    $ 4,931   $ 19,805
Gross profit                3,097       3,743       3,489      3,467     13,796
Net income (loss)             747         942         787        (45)     2,431
Basic net income
 (loss) per share             .30         .38         .32       (.02)       .98
Diluted net income
 (loss) per share             .30         .38         .32       (.02)       .98
================================================================================
</TABLE>


The first quarter of 2000 includes other operating charges of approximately $405
million ($.16 per share after income taxes, basic and diluted) primarily related
to the impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets. The
first quarter of 2000 also includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$275 million ($.08 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.

The second quarter of 2000 includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$191 million ($.05 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.

The third  quarter of 2000 includes a gain of $118 million ($.05 per share after
income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to the merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages
plc and Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A. This gain was partially offset by other
operating  charges of  approximately  $94 million  ($.03 per share after  income
taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to costs associated with the Realignment and
$30  million  ($.01  per share  after  income  taxes,  basic  and  diluted)  for
incremental marketing expense in Central Europe.

The fourth quarter of 2000 includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$290 million ($.08 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.  The fourth quarter of 2000 also includes
other  operating  charges of  approximately  $188 million  ($.05 per share after
income  taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to the  settlement  terms of a class
action discrimination  lawsuit and a donation to The Coca-Cola  Foundation.  The
fourth quarter of 2000 also includes the Company's share of charges  recorded by
investees  of  approximately  $463 million  ($.19 per share after income  taxes,
basic and diluted).

The fourth  quarter of 1999 includes  provisions of $813 million ($.31 per share
after income  taxes,  basic and diluted)  recorded in other  operating  charges,
primarily  related to the  impairment  of certain  bottling,  manufacturing  and
intangible assets.



STOCK PRICES
- ------------
Below  are the New York  Stock  Exchange  high,  low and  closing  prices of The
Coca-Cola Company's stock for each quarter of 2000 and 1999.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                First     Second        Third       Fourth
                               Quarter    Quarter      Quarter      Quarter
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>

2000
High                         $  66.88    $  60.88     $  64.00    $   63.38
Low                             42.88       44.75        49.19        53.50
Close                           46.94       57.44        55.13        60.94

=============================================================================
1999
High                         $  70.38    $  70.88     $  65.50     $  69.00
Low                             59.56       57.63        47.94        47.31
Close                           61.38       62.00        48.25        58.25
=============================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       69



SHARE-OWNER INFORMATION


COMMON STOCK

Ticker symbol: KO
The Coca-Cola Company is one of 30 companies in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average.
Share owners of record at year end: 380,581
Shares outstanding at year end: 2.48 billion


STOCK EXCHANGES

INSIDE THE UNITED STATES:
   Common  stock listed and traded:  New York Stock  Exchange,  the  principal
market for our common stock.
   Common stock traded: Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati,  Pacific and Philadelphia
stock exchanges.

OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES:
   Common stock listed and traded:  The German  exchange in Frankfurt and the
Swiss exchange in Zurich.

DIVIDENDS
   At its February 2001 meeting,  our Board increased our quarterly  dividend to
18 cents per share,  equivalent  to an annual  dividend of 72 cents per share.
The Company has increased dividends each of the last 39 years.
   The Coca-Cola  Company  normally pays  dividends  four times a year,  usually
on April 1, July 1, October 1 and December 15. The Company has paid 319
consecutive quarterly dividends, beginning in 1920.

SHARE-OWNER ACCOUNT ASSISTANCE
   For address  changes,  dividend  checks,  direct  deposit of dividends,
account consolidation, registration changes, lost stock certificates, stock
holdings and the Dividend and Cash Investment Plan, please contact:

Registrar and Transfer Agent
First Chicago Trust Company, a division of EquiServe
P.O. Box 2500
Jersey City, NJ 07303-2500
Toll-free: (888) COKESHR (265-3747)
For hearing impaired: (201) 222-4955
E-mail: fctc_cocacola@equiserve.com
Internet: www.equiserve.com

DIVIDEND AND CASH INVESTMENT PLAN
   The  Dividend  and Cash  Investment  Plan  permits  share owners of record to
reinvest  dividends from Company stock in shares of The Coca-Cola  Company.  The
Plan  provides a  convenient,  economical  and  systematic  method of  acquiring
additional  shares of our common stock.  All share owners of record are eligible
to participate.  Share owners also may purchase Company stock through  voluntary
cash investments of up to $125,000 per year.
   At year end,  75  percent  of the  Company's  share  owners  of  record  were
participants  in the  Plan.  In 2000,  share  owners  invested  $37  million  in
dividends and $42 million in cash in the Plan.
   If your shares are held in street name by your broker and you are  interested
in  participating  in the Dividend and Cash  Investment  Plan, you may have your
broker  transfer  the shares to First  Chicago  Trust  Company,  a  division  of
EquiServe, electronically through the Direct Registration System.
   For more details on the Dividend and Cash Investment Plan, please contact the
Plan  Administrator,  First Chicago Trust Company, or visit the investor section
of our Company's Web site, www.coca-cola.com, for more information.

SHARE-OWNER INTERNET ACCOUNT ACCESS
   Share owners of record may access  their  accounts via the Internet to obtain
share balance,  conduct secure  transactions,  request  printable forms and view
current market value of their investment as well as historical stock prices.
   To log on to this  secure  site and  request  your  initial  password,  go to
www.equiserve.com and click on "Account Access."

ANNUAL MEETING OF SHARE OWNERS
April 18, 2001, 9:00 a.m., local time
The Playhouse Theatre
Du Pont Building
10th and Market Streets
Wilmington, Delaware

CORPORATE OFFICES
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313

INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR INQUIRIES
(404) 676-5766

INFORMATION RESOURCES
INTERNET SITE
   Our  Web  site,  www.coca-cola.com,   offers  information about our financial
performance, news about the Company, and brand experiences.

PUBLICATIONS
   The Company's Annual Report, Proxy Statement, Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports
are available  free of charge upon request from our Industry & Consumer  Affairs
Department at the Company's corporate address, listed above.

HOTLINE
   The Company's hotline,(800)INVSTKO(468-7856),offers taped highlights from the
most recent  quarter and may be used to request  the most  up-to-date  quarterly
results news release.

AUDIO ANNUAL REPORT
   An  audiocassette  version of this report is available  without charge as a
service to the visually impaired. To receive a copy, please contact our Industry
& Consumer Affairs Department at (800) 571-2653.

DUPLICATE MAILINGS
   If you are  receiving  duplicate  or  unwanted  copies of our Annual Report,
please contact First Chicago Trust Company at (888) COKESHR (265-3747).




GLOSSARY


BOTTLING  PARTNER OR  BOTTLER:  Businesses -- generally,  but  not always,
independently owned -- that buy concentrates or syrups from the Company, convert
them into finished packaged products and sell them to customers.

THE COCA-COLA SYSTEM: The Company and its bottling partners.

CONCENTRATE  OR  BEVERAGE  BASE:  Material   manufactured  from  Company-defined
ingredients  and  sold  to  bottlers  for  use in the  preparation  of  finished
beverages through the addition of sweetener and/or water.

CONSOLIDATED BOTTLING OPERATION (CBO): Bottler in which the Company holds a
controlling interest.  The bottler's financial results are consolidated into the
Company's financial statements.

CONSUMER: Person who consumes Company products.

COST OF CAPITAL:  Blended cost of equity and borrowed funds used to invest in
operating capital required for business.

CUSTOMER:  Retail outlet,  restaurant or other operation that sells or serves
Company products directly to consumers.

DERIVATIVES:  Contracts or agreements,  the value of which is linked to interest
rates, exchange rates, prices of securities,  or financial or commodity indices.
The Company uses  derivatives to reduce its exposure to adverse  fluctuations in
interest  and exchange  rates and other market  risks.

DIVIDEND  PAYOUT RATIO:  Calculated  by dividing  cash  dividends on common
stock by net income available to common share owners.

ECONOMIC PROFIT:  Income from continuing  operations,  after giving effect to
taxes and  excluding  the effects of interest,  in excess of a computed  capital
charge for average operating capital employed.

ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED: Growth in economic profit from year to year.

FOUNTAIN:  System  used by retail  outlets to dispense  product  into cups or
glasses for immediate consumption.

FREE CASH  FLOW:  Cash  provided  by  operations  less cash used in  business
reinvestment.  The  Company  uses free cash flow  along with  borrowings  to pay
dividends, make share repurchases and make acquisitions.

GALLON SALES:  Unit of measurement for concentrates  (expressed in equivalent
gallons of syrup) and syrups  sold by the  Company to its  bottling  partners or
customers.

GROSS MARGIN: Calculated by dividing gross profit by net operating revenues.

INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO:  Income before taxes (excluding  unusual items) plus
interest  expense,  divided  by the  sum of  interest  expense  and  capitalized
interest.

KO: The ticker symbol for common stock of The Coca-Cola Company.

MARKET:  Geographic  area in which the Company and its  bottling  partners do
business, often defined by national boundaries.

NET CAPITAL: Calculated by adding share-owners' equity to net debt.

NET DEBT: Calculated by subtracting from debt the sum of cash, cash equivalents,
marketable  securities  and certain  temporary  bottling  investments,  less the
amount of cash determined to be necessary for operations.

OPERATING  MARGIN:  Calculated by dividing  operating income by net operating
revenues.

PER CAPITA  CONSUMPTION:  Average  number of 8-ounce  servings  consumed  per
person,  per year in a  specific  market.  Per  capita  consumption  of  Company
products is calculated by  multiplying  our unit case volume by 24, and dividing
by the population.

RETURN ON CAPITAL: Calculated by dividing income from continuing operations
- -- before changes in accounting  principles,  adding back interest expense -- by
average total capital.

RETURN ON COMMON  EQUITY:  Calculated  by dividing  income from  continuing
operations -- before  changes in accounting  principles,  less  preferred  stock
dividends -- by average common share-owners' equity.

SERVING: Eight U.S. fluid ounces of a beverage.

SOFT  DRINK:  Nonalcoholic  carbonated  beverage  containing  flavorings  and
sweeteners.  Excludes  flavored  waters and  carbonated or  noncarbonated  teas,
coffees and sports drinks.

SYRUP:  Concentrate  mixed with  sweetener  and water,  sold to bottlers  and
customers who add carbonated water to produce finished soft drinks.

TOTAL CAPITAL: Equals share-owners' equity plus interest-bearing debt.

TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF COMMON STOCK:  Stock price as of a date  multiplied by the
number of shares outstanding as of the same date.

UNIT CASE: Unit of measurement equal to 24 8-U.S.-fluid-ounce servings.

UNIT  CASE  VOLUME:  The sum of (i) the  number  of  unit  cases  sold by the
Coca-Cola  bottling system and by the Company to customers,  including  fountain
syrups  sold by the Company to  customers  directly  or through  wholesalers  or
distributors,  and (ii) the volume of juice and juice-drink products (expressed
in equivalent unit cases) distributed by The Minute Maid Company.  Component (i)
above primarily  includes unit case  equivalents of products  reported as gallon
sales and other key products owned by our bottlers.

ENVIRONMENTAL  STATEMENT:  Our Company's approach to environmental  issues is
guided by a simple principle:  We will conduct our business in ways that protect
and preserve the environment.  Throughout our organization, our employees at all
levels are  determined  to  integrate  our  Company's  environmental  management
system,  eKOsystem,  throughout all business units worldwide. We use the results
of research  and new  technology  to minimize  the  environmental  impact of our
operations,  products  and  packages.  And, we seek to  cooperate  with  public,
private and governmental  organizations  in pursuing  solutions to environmental
challenges, directing our Company's skills, energies and resources to activities
and issues where we can make a positive and effective contribution.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY POLICY: The Coca-Cola Company and its subsidiaries employed
approximately 37,000 employees as of December 31, 2000, relatively flat compared
to the end of 1999.  During 2000,  approximately  5,200 employees were separated
from the  Company  as a result  of the  organizational  Realignment,  offset  by
acquisition  of bottlers in Latin  America  and the final  consolidation  of our
bottler in  Southeast  Asia.  We maintain a  long-standing  commitment  to equal
opportunity,  affirmative  action and valuing the  diversity  of our  employees,
share owners,  customers and consumers.  The Company strives to create a working
environment  free of  discrimination  and harassment  with respect to race, sex,
color, national origin, religion, age, sexual orientation,  disability,  being a
special  disabled  veteran or being a veteran of the Vietnam  era, as well as to
make reasonable  accommodations in the employment of qualified  individuals with
disabilities.  The Company  maintains  ongoing  contact  with labor and employee
associations  to develop  relationships  that  foster  responsive  and  mutually
beneficial  discussions  pertaining to labor  issues.  These  associations  have
provided a mechanism for positive industrial relations.  In addition, we provide
fair marketing  opportunities to all suppliers and maintain programs to increase
transactions with firms that are owned and operated by minorities and women.




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>0006.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                     Subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company
                            As of December 31, 2000

                                                       Organized    Percentages
                                                         Under       of Voting
                                                       Laws of:        Power
                                                       ---------    -----------

The Coca-Cola Company                                  Delaware
  Subsidiaries:

  Barq's, Inc.                                         Mississippi       100
  Bottling Investments Corporation                     Delaware          100
     ACCBC Holding Company                             Georgia           100
  Caribbean Refrescos, Inc.                            Delaware          100
     CRI Financial Corporation, Inc.                   Delaware          100
        F&N CC Private Limited                         Singapore         100
  Coca-Cola Oasis, Inc.                                Delaware          100
     Caribbean International Sales Corporation, Inc.   Nevada            100
     Carolina Coca-Cola Bottling Investments, Inc.     Delaware          100
  Coca-Cola Financial Corporation                      Delaware          100
  Coca-Cola Interamerican Corporation                  Delaware          100
    Companhia Mineira de Refrescos, S.A.               Brazil            100
    Montevideo Refrescos, S.A.                         Uruguay            64.59
    Paraguay Refrescos, S.A.                           Paraguay           57.97
  Coca-Cola Refreshment Products Co. Ltd.              Japan             100
  Coca-Cola South Asia Holdings, Inc.                  Delaware          100
    Coca-Cola (China) Investment Ltd.                  China             100
      Coca-Cola (China)Beverages Limited               China             100
    Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam                        Vietnam            77.70
    Coca-Cola India Limited                            India             100
    Coca-Cola (Thailand) Limited                       Thailand          100
  Coca-Cola Tea Products Co. Ltd.                      Japan             100
  CTI Holdings, Inc.                                   Delaware          100
     55th & 5th Avenue Corporation                     New York          100
  The Coca-Cola Export Corporation                     Delaware          100
     Atlantic Industries                               Cayman Islands    100
        Coca-Cola Holdings (Middle East and
             North Africa) E.C.                        Bahrain           100
        FV Corporation                                 Japan             100
        Schweppes Namibia (Prop) Ltd.                  Namibia           100
     Barlan, Inc.                                      Delaware          100
        Soft Drinks Holding S.N.C.                     France            100
        Varoise de Concentres S.A.                     France            100
           Coca-Cola G.m.b.H.                          Germany           100
           Hindustan Coca-Cola Holding Pvt. Ltd.       India             100
              Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Pvt. Ltd.  India             100
           S.A. Coca-Cola Financial Services N.V.      Belgium            99.20
     Beverage Products, Ltd.                           Delaware          100
     Coca-Cola Africa Limited                          Kenya             100
     Coca-Cola Beverages of Estonia, Ltd.              Estonia           100
     Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa (Pty)
           Limited                                     South Africa       51.55
     Coca-Cola China Limited                           Hong Kong         100
     Coca-Cola de Argentina S.A.                       Argentina         100
     Coca-Cola de Chile S.A.                           Chile             100
     Coca-Cola de Colombia, S.A.                       Colombia          100

                                     - 1 -



<BR>

                     Subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company
                            As of December 31, 2000

continued from page 1
- ---------------------
                                                       Organized    Percentages
                                                         Under       of Voting
                                                       Laws of:        Power
                                                       ---------    -----------

     Coca-Cola Ges.m.b.H.                              Austria           100
     Coca-Cola Industrias Ltda.                        Brazil            100
        CCSI-Industria de Refrigerantes Ltda.          Brazil             99.94
        Recofarma Industria do Amazonas Ltda.          Brazil            100
        Refrigerantes Minas Gerais, Ltda.              Brazil            100
     Coca-Cola Ltd.                                    Canada            100
        The Minute Maid Company Canada Inc.            Canada            100
     Coca-Cola (Japan) Company, Limited                Japan             100
     Coca-Cola Korea Company, Limited                  Korea             100
     Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited                         Nigeria           100
     Coca-Cola Holdings West Japan, Inc.               Delaware          100
     Coca-Cola Overseas Parent Limited                 Delaware          100
        Coca-Cola Holdings (Overseas) Limited          Delaware &
                                                        Australia        100
     Coca-Cola Southern Africa (Pty) Limited           South Africa      100
     Conco Limited                                     Cayman Islands    100
     International Beverages                           Ireland           100
     Minute Maid SA                                    Switzerland       100
     Refreshment Product Services, Inc.                Delaware          100
        Beverage Brands, S.A.                          Peru               50
           Corporacion Inca Kola                       Peru               50
        Coca-Cola Holdings (Nederland) B.V.            Netherlands       100
        Coca-Cola Holdings (United Kingdom) Limited    England and
                                                        Wales            100
           Beverage Services Ltd.                      England and
                                                        Wales            100
        Coca-Cola Italia SRL                           Italy             100
        Coca-Cola Hungary Services, Ltd.               Hungary            90
        Soft Drink Services Co.                        Delaware          100
        Coca-Cola Mesrubat Pazarlama ve
           Danismanlik Hizmetleri A.S.                 Turkey            100
        Coca-Cola Norge A/S                            Norway            100
        Coca-Cola South Pacific Pty. Limited           Australia         100
     Refrescos Envasados S.A.                          Spain             100
        Compania de Servicios de Bebidas
           Refrescantes SLR                            Spain              99.99
     The Inmex Corporation                             Florida           100
        Servicios Integrados de Administracion
           y Alta Gerencia, S.A. de C.V.               Mexico            100
     Star Bottling Limited                             Cyprus            100
        Coca-Cola Central Eurasia Bottlers LLC         Russia            100
        Coca-Cola St. Petersburg Management            Russia            100
        Star Bottling Limited                          United Kingdom    100
        Star Services                                  Russia            100
     SA Coca-Cola Services NV                          Belgium           100

Other subsidiaries whose combined size is not significant:
      8 domestic wholly owned subsidiaries consolidated
    106 foreign wholly owned subsidiaries consolidated
     10 foreign majority-owned subsidiaries consolidated


                                     - 2 -

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>0007.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF AUDITORS
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 23.1



                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


     We consent to the  incorporation by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K of The Coca-Cola Company of our report dated January 26, 2001,  included in
the 2000 Annual Report to Share Owners of The Coca-Cola Company.

     Our audits also included the financial  statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
Company  listed  in Item  14(a).  This  schedule  is the  responsibility  of The
Coca-Cola  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion
based on our audits.  In our opinion,  with respect to which the date is January
26, 2001, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,  presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

     We also  consent to the  incorporation  by  reference  in the  registration
statements and related prospectuses of The Coca-Cola Company listed below of our
report  dated  January  26,  2001 with  respect  to the  consolidated  financial
statements of The Coca-Cola Company  incorporated  herein by reference,  and our
report  included  in the  preceding  paragraph  with  respect  to the  financial
statement  schedule  included  in this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000:

  1.    Registration Statement Number 2-58584 on Form S-8
  2.    Registration Statement Number 2-79973 on Form S-3
  3.    Registration Statement Number 2-88085 on Form S-8
  4.    Registration Statement Number 2-98787 on Form S-3
  5.    Registration Statement Number 33-21529 on Form S-8
  6.    Registration Statement Number 33-21530 on Form S-3
  7.    Registration Statement Number 33-26251 on Form S-8
  8.    Registration Statement Number 33-39840 on Form S-8
  9.    Registration Statement Number 33-45763 on Form S-3
 10.    Registration Statement Number 33-50743 on Form S-3
 11.    Registration Statement Number 33-61531 on Form S-3
 12.    Registration Statement Number 333-27607 on Form S-8
 13.    Registration Statement Number 333-78763 on Form S-8
 14.    Registration Statement Number 333-35298 on Form S-8



                                          ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March  5, 2001


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>0008.txt
<DESCRIPTION>POWERS OF ATTORNEY
<TEXT>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and a Director of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),
do hereby appoint JACK L. STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the
Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial  Officer of
the Company,  JOSEPH R.  GLADDEN,  JR.,  Executive  Vice  President  and General
Counsel of the Company,  SUSAN E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C.
HAYES,  Assistant  Secretary  of the  Company,  or any one of them,  my true and
lawful  attorneys-in-fact  for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on
my behalf in any and all  capacities  the  Company's  Annual Report for the year
ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K, or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,
and causing such Annual  Report or any such  amendment or supplement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange  Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        ------------------------------------
                                        Chairman of the Board,
                                        Chief Executive Officer and Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS THAT I, GARY P. FAYARD,  Senior Vice  President
and Chief Financial Officer of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby
appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman of the Board,  Chief Executive  Officer and a
Director of the Company, JACK L. STAHL, President and Chief Operating Officer of
the Company,  JOSEPH R.  GLADDEN,  JR.,  Executive  Vice  President  and General
Counsel of the Company,  SUSAN E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C.
HAYES,  Assistant  Secretary  of the  Company,  or any one of them,  my true and
lawful  attorneys-in-fact for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on
my behalf in any and all  capacities  the  Company's  Annual Report for the year
ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K, or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,
and causing such Annual  Report or any such  amendment or supplement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange  Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ GARY P. FAYARD
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Senior Vice President
                                        and Chief Financial Officer
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, CONNIE D.  MCDANIEL,  Vice President and
Controller of The Coca-Cola  Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS
N. DAFT,  Chairman of the Board,  Chief Executive  Officer and a Director of the
Company,  JACK L. STAHL,  President and Chief Operating  Officer of the Company,
GARY P.  FAYARD,  Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer  of the
Company, JOSEPH R. GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
the  Company,  SUSAN E. SHAW,  Secretary  of the  Company,  and CAROL C.  HAYES,
Assistant  Secretary  of the  Company,  or any one of them,  my true and  lawful
attorneys-in-fact for me and in my name for the  purpose  of  executing  on my
behalf in any and all capacities the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended
December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,  or any  amendment or  supplement  thereto,  and
causing such Annual Report or any such  amendment or supplement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ CONNIE D. MCDANIEL
                                        ----------------------------------
                                        Vice President and Controller
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I,  HERBERT A.  ALLEN,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ HERBERT A. ALLEN
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I,  RONALD W.  ALLEN,  a Director  of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ RONALD W. ALLEN
                                        -------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I,  CATHLEEN P. BLACK,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ CATHLEEN P. BLACK
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I, WARREN E.  BUFFETT,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.




                                        /s/ WARREN E. BUFFETT
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW  ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I,  SUSAN B.  KING,  a  Director  of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.




                                        /s/ SUSAN B. KING
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I, DONALD F.  MCHENRY,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.




                                        /s/ DONALD F. MCHENRY
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I, SAM NUNN, a Director of The  Coca-Cola
Company (the  "Company"),  do hereby  appoint  DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman of the
Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L. STAHL,
President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,  Senior
Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R. GLADDEN,
JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW,
Secretary  of the  Company,  and  CAROL C.  HAYES,  Assistant  Secretary  of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful  attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all  capacities the
Company's  Annual  Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ SAM NUNN
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I, PAUL F.  OREFFICE,  a Director  of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ PAUL F. OREFFICE
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, JAMES D. ROBINSON III, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ JAMES D. ROBINSON III
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS THAT I, PETER V.  UEBERROTH,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.


                                        /s/ PETER V. UEBERRROTH
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<BR>
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE  PRESENTS  THAT I, JAMES B.  WILLIAMS,  a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),  do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT,  Chairman
of the Board,  Chief  Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  JACK L.
STAHL,  President and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company,  GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  JOSEPH R.
GLADDEN, JR., Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN
E. SHAW,  Secretary of the Company,  and CAROL C. HAYES,  Assistant Secretary of
the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and
in my name for the purpose of executing  on my behalf in any and all  capacities
the Company's  Annual Report for the year ended  December 31, 2000 on Form 10-K,
or any  amendment or supplement  thereto,  and causing such Annual Report or any
such  amendment  or  supplement  to be filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of February
2001.




                                         /s/ JAMES B. WILLIAMS
                                        --------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>0009.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
<TEXT>

                                                                EXHIBIT 99.1

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELATIVE TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


     Certain written and oral statements made by our Company and subsidiaries or
with  the  approval  of an  authorized  executive  officer  of our  Company  may
constitute "forward-looking  statements" as defined under the Private Securities
Litigation  Reform Act of 1995,  including  statements  made in this  report and
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Generally, the words
"believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate,"  "anticipate,"  "project," "will" and
similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not
historical in nature. All statements which address operating performance, events
or developments  that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future including
statements  relating to volume  growth,  share of sales and  earnings  per share
growth,  and  statements  expressing  general  optimism  about future  operating
results are forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are subject
to certain  risks and  uncertainties  that could cause actual  results to differ
materially from our Company's historical experience and our present expectations
or projections. As and when made, management believes that these forward-looking
statements are reasonable.  However,  caution should be taken not to place undue
reliance on any such forward-looking statements since such statements speak only
as of the date when made.  The  Company  undertakes  no  obligation  to publicly
update or revise  any  forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result of new
information,  future events or otherwise.  The following are some of the factors
that could cause our  Company's  actual  results to differ  materially  from the
expected  results  described  in or  underlying  our  Company's  forward-looking
statements:

- --  Our  ability  to  generate  sufficient  cash  flows to  support  capital
    expansion plans, share repurchase programs and general operating activities.

- --  Changes  in the  nonalcoholic  beverages  business  environment.  These
    include,  without limitation,  competitive product and pricing pressures and
    our ability to gain or maintain  share of sales in the global  market as a
    result of actions  by  competitors.  While we believe our opportunities  for
    sustained, profitable  growth are  considerable,  factors  such as these
    could  impact our earnings, share of sales and volume growth.

- --  Changes  in  laws  and  regulations,  including  changes  in  accounting
    standards,  taxation requirements  (including tax rate changes, new tax laws
    and revised tax law  interpretations)  and environmental laws in domestic or
    foreign jurisdictions.

- --  Fluctuations  in the cost and  availability  of raw  materials  and the
    ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships.

- -- Our ability to achieve earnings forecasts,  which are generated based on
   projected  volumes  and  sales of many  product  types,  some of which  are
   more profitable  than  others.  There can be no  assurance  that we will
   achieve the projected level or mix of product sales.

- --  Interest  rate  fluctuations  and  other  capital  market   conditions,
    including foreign currency rate  fluctuations.  Most of our exposures to
    capital markets,  including interest and foreign currency, are managed on a
    consolidated basis, which allows us to net certain exposures and, thus, take
    advantage of any natural  offsets.  We use  derivative financial instruments
    to reduce our net exposure  to financial  risks.  There can be no assurance,
    however,  that our financial  risk  management  program  will be  successful
    in  reducing  foreign currency exposures.

- -- Economic and political conditions,  especially in international markets,
   including civil unrest,  governmental changes and restrictions on the ability
   to transfer capital across borders.

- -- Our ability to penetrate  developing  and emerging  markets,  which also
   depends  on  economic  and  political  conditions,  and how  well we are able
   to acquire  or form  strategic  business  alliances  with local bottlers and
   make necessary  infrastructure  enhancements to production  facilities,
   distribution networks,  sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply
   of products in developing markets must match the customers' demand for those
   products,  and due to product price and cultural differences,  there can be
   no assurance of product acceptance in any particular market.

- --  The effectiveness of our advertising, marketing and promotional programs.

- --  The   uncertainties   of  litigation,   as  well  as  other  risks  and
    uncertainties  detailed  from  time  to  time in our  Company's  Securities
    and Exchange Commission filings.

- -- Adverse  weather  conditions,  which  could  reduce  demand  for  Company
   products. The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
