-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 E+c3xHRIdd1IaUVf782MP/rmBKas4WpGd2EdtQslxnm3LPvNKoMOr5RngyeLnxEf
 FElzC/MYW6z8imNMCJYyow==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000021344-02-000011.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000021344-02-000011.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000021344-02-000011
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020311

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COCA COLA CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000021344
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BEVERAGES [2080]
		IRS NUMBER:				580628465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02217
		FILM NUMBER:		02571885

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE COCA COLA PLAZA
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30313
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4046762121

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE COCA COLA PLAZA
		ZIP:			30313
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>kok01.txt
<DESCRIPTION>KO 2001 10-K
<TEXT>
================================================================================
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
             [ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                       For the transition period from to
                           Commission File No. 1-2217

                      [THE COCA-COLA COMPANY LOGO PASTEUP]

             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                  DELAWARE                             58-0628465
      (State or other jurisdiction of                (IRS Employer
       incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)

            One Coca-Cola Plaza                         30313
               Atlanta, Georgia                         (Zip Code)
    (Address of principal executive offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (404) 676-2121

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of each exchange on
       Title of each class                             which registered
       -------------------                        ------------------------
   COMMON STOCK, $.25 PAR VALUE                    NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.

                                Yes [ X ]       No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ____


The aggregate  market value of the common equity held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant  (assuming  for  these  purposes,  but  without  conceding,  that all
executive  officers and  Directors are  "affiliates"  of the  Registrant)  as of
February  22, 2002 (based on the closing sale price of the  Registrant's  Common
Stock as reported  on the New York Stock  Exchange  on  February  22,  2002) was
$102,447,327,359.

The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock as of February
22, 2002, was 2,484,715,366.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions  of the  Company's  Annual  Report to Share  Owners  for the year ended
December 31, 2001, are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV.

Portions of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Share Owners
to be held on April 17, 2002, are incorporated by reference in Part III.

================================================================================
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
- ----------------
     The Coca-Cola  Company  (together with its  subsidiaries,  the "Company" or
"our Company") was incorporated in September 1919 under the laws of the State of
Delaware and  succeeded to the business of a Georgia  corporation  with the same
name  that had been  organized  in 1892.  Our  Company  is the  world's  leading
manufacturer, distributor and marketer of nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and
syrups.  We  manufacture  beverage  concentrates  and  syrups  and,  in  certain
instances, finished beverages, which we sell to bottling and canning operations,
fountain  wholesalers and some fountain  retailers.  Finished  beverage products
bearing the Company's trademarks,  sold in the United States since 1886, are now
sold in nearly 200 countries and include the leading soft drink products in most
of  these  countries.  The  Company  also  markets  and  distributes  juice  and
juice-drink  products.  In  addition,  we have  ownership  interests in numerous
bottling and canning operations.

     Our  Company is one of numerous  competitors  in the  commercial  beverages
market.  Of the approximately 48 billion beverage servings of all types consumed
worldwide  every day,  beverages  bearing  the  Company's  trademarks  ("Company
Trademark Beverages") account for more than 1.1 billion.

     The business of our Company is  nonalcoholic  beverages - principally  soft
drinks but also a variety of  noncarbonated  beverages.  As used in this report,
the term "soft drinks" refers to nonalcoholic  carbonated  beverages  containing
flavorings and sweeteners,  excluding waters,  flavored waters and carbonated or
noncarbonated teas, coffees and sports drinks.

     Our Company  believes  that our  success  depends on our ability to connect
with  consumers  by creating  brands they love,  and the capacity of our people,
together with our bottling  partners,  to find new and appealing ways to deliver
those brands to thirsty people everywhere.  To this end, the Company has adopted
an approach to its business that is based on the following objectives:

     - Accelerate carbonated soft-drink growth, led by Coca-Cola
     - Selectively broaden our family of beverage brands to drive profitable
        growth
     - Grow system profitability and capability together with our bottling
        partners
     - Serve customers with creativity and consistency to generate growth across
        all channels
     - Direct investments to highest potential areas across markets
     - Drive efficiency and cost-effectiveness everywhere

     The  Company's   operating   structure  includes  the  following  operating
segments:  North America  (including The Minute Maid Company);  Africa;  Europe,
Eurasia and Middle East; Latin America;  Asia; and Corporate.  This structure is
the basis for our  Company's  internal  financial  reporting.  The North America
segment includes the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Effective January 1,
2001, the Company's  operating  segments were  geographically  reconfigured  and
renamed as follows:  Puerto Rico was added to the North America segment from the
Latin  America  segment.  The Middle East  Division  was added to the Europe and
Eurasia segment,  which changed its name to the Europe,  Eurasia and Middle East
segment. At the same time the Africa and Middle East segment, less the relocated
Middle East Division,  changed its name to the Africa segment.  During the first
quarter of 2001, the Asia Pacific segment was renamed the Asia segment.

     In  March  2001,  our  Company  announced  a  new  operational   management
structure.   Four  strategic  business  units  were  created:   Americas,  Asia,
Europe/Africa, and Coca-Cola Ventures. In July 2001, this structure was modified
to comprise a total of four strategic  business units:  Americas;  Asia; Europe,
Eurasia and Middle East; and Coca-Cola Ventures;  as well as a separate business
unit: the Africa Group. Coca-Cola Ventures (including, for operational reporting
purposes,  The Minute Maid Company) is a strategic business unit responsible for
identifying and developing significant new business opportunities,  managing our
Company's  interests  in  noncarbonated  beverage  new  businesses  and ventures
worldwide,  and  coordinating and overseeing  unconsolidated  joint ventures and
partnerships.  These  responsibilities  are  shared  jointly  between  Coca-Cola
Ventures  and  operating   management  of  the  Company's  applicable  operating
segments. The financial results of these businesses,  ventures, and


                                       1
<PAGE>

partnerships are included in the financial results of the applicable  geographic
operating segments. Consequently, the Coca-Cola Ventures strategic business unit
is not  considered  an  operating  segment with profit and loss  statements  and
separate, identifiable assets.

     At the date of this report,  the heads of the strategic  business units are
as follows:  Jeffrey T. Dunn (Americas),  Mary E. Minnick (Asia), A.R.C. "Sandy"
Allan  (Europe,  Eurasia  and  Middle  East),  and  Steven J.  Heyer  (Coca-Cola
Ventures).  See "Item X. --  Executive  Officers of the  Company."  Alexander B.
Cummings,  Jr. is the head of the  Africa  Group.  Steven J.  Heyer  reports  to
Douglas N. Daft,  Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company.  The other executives named above report to Brian G. Dyson, Vice
Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.

     Except to the  extent  that  differences  between  operating  segments  are
material to an  understanding  of our Company's  business taken as a whole,  the
description  of  the  Company's  business  in  this  report  is  presented  on a
consolidated basis.

     In the following table,  prior period amounts have been restated to conform
to the current period presentation.  Of the Company's consolidated net operating
revenues and operating  income for each of the past three years,  the percentage
represented by each operating segment (excluding Corporate) is as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                          North                 Europe, Eurasia       Latin
                         America     Africa     and Middle East      America      Asia
                         -------     ------     ---------------      -------      ----
<S>                       <C>         <C>           <C>               <C>         <C>
Net Operating Revenues
         2001              38%         3%            23%               11%        25%
         2000              37%         3%            23%               11%        26%
         1999              37%         4%            24%               10%        25%

Operating Income
         2001              24%         4%            25%               18%        29%
         2000              30%         4%            27%               19%        20%
         1999              31%         5%            20%               18%        26%


</TABLE>



For additional financial  information about the Company's operating segments and
geographic  areas,  see  Notes  1,  14  and  19 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements,  set forth on pages  62-64,  77-78 and 81-83,  respectively,  of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2001,
incorporated herein by reference.

     Our Company  manufactures and sells soft drink and  noncarbonated  beverage
concentrates and syrups, including fountain syrups, some finished beverages, and
certain juice and juice-drink products. Syrups are composed of sweetener,  water
and flavoring  concentrate.  The  concentrates and syrups for bottled and canned
beverages are sold by the Company to authorized bottling and canning operations.
The bottlers or canners of soft-drink  products  either  combine  the syrup with
carbonated water or combine the concentrate with sweetener, water and carbonated
water to produce finished soft drinks.  The finished soft drinks are packaged in
authorized  containers bearing our Company's  trademarks - cans,  refillable and
non-refillable  glass and plastic  bottles - for sale to  retailers  or, in some
cases,  wholesalers.  Fountain syrups are  manufactured and sold by the Company,
principally in the United States,  to authorized  fountain  wholesalers and some
fountain  retailers.  (Outside the United States,  fountain syrups typically are
manufactured  by  authorized  bottlers  from  concentrates  sold  to them by the
Company.)   Authorized  fountain   wholesalers   (including  certain  authorized
bottlers) sell fountain syrups to fountain retailers. The fountain retailers use
dispensing  equipment to mix the syrup with  carbonated  or still water and then
sell  finished soft drinks or  noncarbonated  beverages to consumers in cups and
glasses.  Finished  beverages  manufactured  by our  Company  are  sold by it to
authorized  bottlers  or  distributors,  who in  turn  sell  these  products  to
retailers or, in some cases, wholesalers. Both directly and through a network of
business   partners  that  includes  certain  Coca-Cola   bottlers,   juice  and
juice-drink  products  manufactured  by the  Company  are sold by our Company to
retailers and wholesalers in the United States and numerous other countries.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     The Company's  beverage  products,  including  bottled and canned beverages
produced by independent and Company-owned  bottling and canning  operations,  as
well as concentrates and syrups, include Coca-Cola,  Coca-Cola classic, caffeine
free  Coca-Cola,  caffeine  free  Coca-Cola  classic,  diet Coke (sold under the
trademark  Coca-Cola  light in many  countries  other than the  United  States),
caffeine free diet Coke,  diet Coke with lemon,  Cherry Coke,  diet Cherry Coke,
Fanta brand soft drinks,  Sprite,  diet Sprite (sold under the trademark  Sprite
light in many countries  other than the United States),  Mr. Pibb,  Mello Yello,
TAB, Fresca,  Barq's root beer and other flavors,  Citra,  POWERade,  Fruitopia,
Minute Maid flavors, Aquarius, Sokenbicha, Ciel, Bonaqa, Dasani, Lift, Thums Up,
Kuat, Qoo and other products developed for specific countries, including Georgia
brand  ready-to-drink  coffees,  and numerous  other brands.  In many  countries
(excluding the United States, among others) our Company's beverage products also
include  Schweppes,  Canada Dry, Dr Pepper and Crush. The Minute Maid Company, a
global  division  with  operations  primarily  in the United  States and Canada,
produces,  distributes and markets  principally juice and juice-drink  products,
including Minute Maid products, Simply Orange orange juice, Odwalla and Samantha
super  premium  juices and drinks,  Five Alive  refreshment  beverages,  Bacardi
tropical fruit mixers  (manufactured and marketed under a license from Bacardi &
Company Limited), and Hi-C ready-to-serve fruit drinks.  Additionally,  Beverage
Partners  Worldwide,  the  Company's  joint  venture  with Nestle S.A.,  markets
ready-to-drink teas and coffees in certain countries.

     Consumer demand  determines the optimal menu of Company product  offerings.
Consumer  demand can vary from one locale to  another  and can change  over time
within a single locale.  Employing our business strategy, and with special focus
on Coca-Cola,  our Company  seeks to build its existing  brands and, at the same
time, to broaden its historical family of brands, products and services in order
to create and satisfy consumer demand locale by locale.

     Our Company  introduced a variety of new brands and acquired  brands during
2001. Diet Coke with lemon was rolled out initially in the United States, Canada
and Puerto Rico,  commencing in  September.  In July,  our Company  introduced a
reformulated POWERade,  including B vitamins, as a family of drinks that combine
the benefits of energy and hydration. Other product introductions included:

     - Simply  Orange,  a  not-from-concentrate  premium  orange  juice from The
        Minute Maid Company
     - U.S. rollout of Minute Maid Lemonade and Minute Maid Fruit Punch
     - The juice drink, Qoo, in Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan
     - Joy, a bottled drinking water, and the energy drink Samurai in Vietnam
     - Marocha Green Tea in Japan
     - Lan Feng, a bottled green tea beverage, in China

     Also during 2001, our Company teamed with The Walt Disney Company to market
innovative  children's   beverages.   The  first  products  launched  under  the
multi-year  agreement are from The Minute Maid Company in the United States, and
include the DISNEY XTREME!  COOLERS(tm)  line, a fortified  juice drink with 25%
less  sugar  than the  average of leading  kids'  juice  drinks,  and the DISNEY
HUNDRED ACRE WOOD(tm) 100% JUICE line, fortified with Vitamin C and Calcium.

     In 2001  concentrates  and  syrups  for  beverages  bearing  the  trademark
"Coca-Cola" or including the trademark "Coke" accounted for approximately 60% of
the Company's total gallon sales.(1)

- --------------

(1) Our  Company  measures  sales  volume in two ways:  (1) gallons and (2) unit
cases of finished products. "Gallons" is a unit of measurement for concentrates,
syrups and other beverage  products  (expressed in equivalent  gallons of syrup)
included by the Company in unit case volume.  Most of the Company's revenues are
based on this  measure of  primarily  "wholesale"  activity.  Our  Company  also
measures volume in unit cases. As used in this report,  "unit case" means a unit
of  measurement  equal  to 192  U.S.  fluid  ounces  of  finished  beverage  (24
eight-ounce servings); and "unit case volume" of the Company means the number of
unit cases (or unit case  equivalents) of Company trademark or licensed beverage
products directly or indirectly sold by the Coca-Cola  bottling system or by the
Company  to  customers,  including  (i)  beverage  products  bearing  trademarks
licensed to the Company and (ii) certain key products  (which are not  material)
owned by Coca-Cola system bottlers and for which the Company provides  marketing
support and derives profit from the sales.

                                       3

<PAGE>



     In  2001,  gallon  sales  in  the  United  States  ("U.S.   gallon  sales")
represented   approximately  28%  of  the  Company's   worldwide  gallon  sales.
Approximately  60% of U.S.  gallon sales for 2001 was  attributable  to sales of
beverage   concentrates  and  syrups  to  approximately  82  authorized  bottler
ownership  groups in  approximately  394 licensed  territories.  Those  bottlers
prepare and sell finished  beverages  bearing the Company's  trademarks  for the
food store and vending machine distribution  channels and for other distribution
channels  supplying home and immediate  consumption.  Approximately  34% of 2001
U.S. gallon sales was attributable to fountain syrups sold to fountain retailers
and to  approximately  500  authorized  fountain  wholesalers,  some of whom are
authorized  bottlers.  These  fountain  wholesalers  in turn sell the  syrups or
deliver  them  on  the  Company's  behalf  to  restaurants  and  other  fountain
retailers.  The  remaining  approximately  6% of  2001  U.S.  gallon  sales  was
attributable to juice and juice- drink products sold by The Minute Maid Company.
Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc.,  including its bottling  subsidiaries and divisions
("Coca-Cola Enterprises"), accounted for approximately 52% of the Company's U.S.
gallon  sales in 2001.  At December  31,  2001,  our Company  held an  ownership
interest of  approximately  38% in Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  which is the world's
largest bottler of Company Trademark Beverages.

     In 2001, gallon sales outside the United States  represented  approximately
72% of the Company's  worldwide  gallon sales. In 2001, our Company's  principal
markets outside the United States,  based on gallon sales, were Mexico,  Brazil,
Japan  and  Germany,  which  together  accounted  for  approximately  25% of the
Company's worldwide gallon sales. Approximately 90% of non-U.S. unit case volume
for 2001 was  attributable  to sales of  beverage  concentrates  and  syrups  to
authorized bottlers in approximately 478 licensed territories.  Approximately 7%
of 2001  non-U.S.  unit case volume was  attributable  to fountain  syrups.  The
remaining approximately 3% of 2001 non-U.S. unit case volume was attributable to
juice and juice-drink products.

     In addition to conducting  its own  independent  advertising  and marketing
activities,  our Company may provide  promotional and marketing  services and/or
funds and consultation to its bottlers and to fountain and bottle/can retailers,
usually but not always on a discretionary  basis. Also on a discretionary basis,
in most cases, the Company may develop and introduce new products,  packages and
equipment  to assist its  bottlers,  fountain  syrup  wholesalers  and  fountain
beverage retailers.

     The  profitability  of our Company's  business outside the United States is
subject to many factors,  including  governmental trade regulations and monetary
policies,  economic  and  political  conditions  in the  countries in which such
business is  conducted  and the risk of changes in currency  exchange  rates and
regulations.

     BOTTLER'S AGREEMENTS AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

     Separate contracts ("Bottler's Agreements") between our Company and each of
its bottlers  regarding  the  manufacture  and sale of soft  drinks,  subject to
specified terms and conditions and certain  variations,  generally authorize the
bottler to prepare particular designated Company Trademark Beverages, to package
the same in particular  authorized  containers,  and to distribute  and sell the
same  in (but  generally  only  in) an  identified  territory.  The  bottler  is
obligated to purchase its entire  requirement of  concentrates or syrups for the
designated  Company Trademark  Beverages from the Company or  Company-authorized
suppliers.  Our Company typically agrees to refrain from selling or distributing
or from authorizing  third parties to sell or distribute the designated  Company
Trademark  Beverages  throughout  the  identified  territory  in the  particular
authorized containers; however, the Company typically reserves for itself or its
designee the right (i) to prepare and package such beverages in such  containers
in the territory  for sale outside the  territory and (ii) to prepare,  package,
distribute and sell such beverages in the territory in any other manner or form.

     The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and its authorized bottlers in
the United States differ in certain  respects from those in the other  countries
in which Company  Trademark  Beverages are sold. As hereinafter  discussed,  the
principal  differences involve the duration of the agreements;  the inclusion or
exclusion of canned beverage  production  rights;  the inclusion or exclusion of
authorizations to manufacture and distribute fountain syrups; in some cases, the
degree of  flexibility  on the part of the Company to  determine  the pricing of
syrups and concentrates;  and the extent, if any, of the Company's obligation to
provide marketing support.


     OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. The Bottler's Agreements between our Company and
its  authorized  bottlers  outside  the United  States  generally  are of stated
duration,  subject in some cases to possible  extensions or renewals of the term
of the contract.  Generally,  these  contracts are subject to termination by the
Company following the occurrence

                                       4

<PAGE>

of certain  designated  events,  including defined events of default and certain
changes in ownership or control of the bottler.

     In certain  parts of the world outside the United  States,  the Company has
not granted  comprehensive  beverage production rights to the bottlers.  In such
instances,  our Company or its designee typically sells canned (or in some cases
bottled) Company  Trademark  Beverages to the bottlers for sale and distribution
throughout the designated  territory under distribution  agreements,  often on a
non-exclusive basis. A majority of the Bottler's Agreements in force between the
Company  and  bottlers  outside  the  United  States  authorize  the  bottler to
manufacture and distribute fountain syrups, usually on a non-exclusive basis.

     Our Company  generally has complete  flexibility to determine the price and
other terms of sale of  concentrates  and syrups to bottlers  outside the United
States and,  although in its  discretion  it may determine to do so, the Company
typically (but not always) has no obligation under such Bottler's  Agreements to
provide  marketing support to the bottlers.  In some instances,  the Company has
agreed or may in the future agree with the bottler  with respect to  concentrate
pricing on a prospective basis for specified time periods.

     WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.  In the United States,  with certain very limited
exceptions,  the Bottler's  Agreements  for  Coca-Cola  and other  cola-flavored
beverages have no stated expiration date and the contracts for other flavors are
of stated duration,  subject to bottler renewal rights. The Bottler's Agreements
in  the  United   States  are  subject  to   termination   by  the  Company  for
nonperformance or upon the occurrence of certain defined events of default which
may vary from contract to contract. The hereinafter described "1987 Contract" is
terminable by the Company upon the occurrence of certain events  including:  (1)
the  bottler's  insolvency,  dissolution,  receivership  or the  like;  (2)  any
disposition by the bottler or any of its  subsidiaries of any voting  securities
of any bottler subsidiary  without the consent of the Company;  (3) any material
breach of any obligation of the bottler under the 1987  Contract;  or (4) except
in the case of certain  bottlers,  if a person or affiliated  group  acquires or
obtains any right to acquire beneficial  ownership of more than 10% of any class
or series of voting  securities  of the  bottler  without  authorization  by the
Company.

     Under the terms of the Bottler's Agreements,  bottlers in the United States
are authorized to  manufacture  and distribute  Company  Trademark  Beverages in
bottles and cans,  but generally  are not  authorized  to  manufacture  fountain
syrups.   Rather,  our  Company   manufactures  and  sells  fountain  syrups  to
approximately 500 authorized fountain wholesalers  (including certain authorized
bottlers) and some fountain  retailers.  The wholesalers in turn sell the syrups
or deliver them on the Company's behalf to restaurants and other retailers.  The
wholesaler  typically  acts pursuant to a  non-exclusive  letter of  appointment
which neither  restricts  the pricing of fountain  syrups by our Company nor the
territory in which the wholesaler may resell in the United States.

     In the United  States,  the form of Bottler's  Agreement for  cola-flavored
soft drinks that covers the largest amount of U.S. volume (the "1987  Contract")
gives the Company complete flexibility to determine the price and other terms of
sale of soft drink  concentrates and syrups for cola-flavored  Company Trademark
Beverages   ("Coca-Cola   Trademark  Beverages")  and  other  Company  Trademark
Beverages. In some instances,  the Company has agreed or may in the future agree
with the bottler with respect to concentrate  pricing on a prospective basis for
specified time periods. Bottlers operating under the 1987 Contract accounted for
approximately  85% of our Company's total United States gallon sales for bottled
and canned  beverages,  excluding juice and  juice-drink  products of The Minute
Maid Company,  ("U.S.  bottle/can gallon sales") in 2001. Certain other forms of
the U.S. Bottler's Agreement, entered into prior to 1987, provide for soft drink
concentrates or syrups for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark  Beverages to be priced
pursuant to a stated  formula.  The oldest such form of contract,  applicable to
bottlers  accounting for  approximately  1% of U.S.  bottle/can  gallon sales in
2001,  provides for a fixed price for Coca-Cola  syrup used in bottles and cans,
subject  to  quarterly  adjustments  to reflect  changes in the quoted  price of
sugar.  Bottlers  accounting  for  the  remaining   approximately  14%  of  U.S.
bottle/can gallon sales in 2001 have contracts for certain  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages with pricing  formulas  generally  providing for a baseline price that
may be adjusted  periodically  by the Company,  up to a maximum  indexed ceiling
price,  and that is adjusted  quarterly  based upon changes in certain  sugar or
sweetener prices, as applicable.

     Standard  contracts  with  bottlers  in the  United  States for the sale of
concentrates  and syrups for non-cola-flavored soft drinks in bottles  and  cans
permit flexible pricing by the Company.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     Under the 1987 Contract,  our Company has no obligation to participate with
bottlers  in  expenditures  for  advertising  and  marketing,  but  may,  at its
discretion,  contribute  toward such  expenditures and undertake  independent or
cooperative advertising and marketing activities. Some U.S. Bottler's Agreements
that pre-date the 1987 Contract  impose  certain  marketing  obligations  on the
Company with respect to certain Company Trademark Beverages.

     SIGNIFICANT EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND COMPANY BOTTLING OPERATIONS

     Our Company maintains business  relationships with three types of bottlers:
(1)  independently  owned  bottlers,  in  which  the  Company  has no  ownership
interest;   (2)   bottlers  in  which  the  Company  has   invested  and  has  a
noncontrolling  ownership  interest;  and (3)  bottlers in which the Company has
invested and has a controlling ownership interest. In 2001,  independently owned
bottling operations produced and distributed  approximately 23% of the Company's
worldwide unit case volume; cost or equity method investee bottlers in which the
Company  owns a  noncontrolling  ownership  interest  produced  and  distributed
approximately  61% of such  worldwide  unit  case  volume;  and  controlled  and
consolidated  bottling  and  fountain  operations,  including  The  Minute  Maid
Company,  produced and distributed approximately 16% of such worldwide unit case
volume.

     Our Company makes equity  investments in selected bottling  operations with
the  intention  of  maximizing  the  strength and  efficiency  of the  Coca-Cola
business  system's  production,  distribution  and marketing  systems around the
world.  These  investments  are  intended  to result in  increases  in unit case
volume,  net revenues and profits at the bottler  level,  which in turn generate
increased gallon sales for the Company's concentrate business. When this occurs,
both the Company  and the  bottlers  benefit  from  long-term  growth in volume,
improved cash flows and increased share-owner value.

     The level of our Company's  investment  generally  depends on the bottler's
capital  structure  and its available  resources at the time of the  investment.
Historically,  in certain situations,  the Company has viewed it as advantageous
to acquire a controlling interest in a bottling operation,  often on a temporary
basis. Owning such a controlling  interest has allowed the Company to compensate
for  limited  local  resources  and has  enabled  the  Company to help focus the
bottler's  sales and  marketing  programs and assist in the  development  of the
bottler's business and information  systems and the establishment of appropriate
capital structures.

     In line with its  long-term  bottling  strategy,  our Company  periodically
considers  options for reducing its  ownership  interest in a bottler.  One such
option  is to  combine  the  Company's  bottling  interests  with  the  bottling
interests of others to form strategic business  alliances.  Another option is to
sell the  Company's  interest in a bottling  operation  to one of the  Company's
equity investee bottlers. In both of these situations,  our Company continues to
participate  in the  bottler's  results of  operations  through its share of the
equity investee's earnings or losses.

     In  cases  where  the   Company's   investments   in   bottlers   represent
noncontrolling  interests,  our Company's  intention is to provide expertise and
resources to strengthen those businesses.

     Our Company has substantial equity positions in 56 unconsolidated bottling,
canning  and  distribution  operations  for its  products  worldwide,  including
bottlers  representing  approximately  57% of the Company's total U.S. unit case
volume in 2001. Of these,  significant  investee  bottlers  accounted for by the
equity method include the following:

     COCA-COLA  ENTERPRISES INC. Our Company's  ownership  interest in Coca-Cola
Enterprises was approximately 38% at December 31, 2001. Coca-Cola Enterprises is
the world's largest  bottler of the Company's  beverage  products.  In 2001, net
sales of concentrates  and syrups by the Company to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were
approximately $3.9 billion,  or approximately 19% of our Company's net operating
revenues.  Coca-Cola Enterprises also purchases high-fructose corn syrup through
the  Company;  however,  related  collections  from  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  and
payments to suppliers are not included in the Company's consolidated  statements
of income.  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  estimates  that the  territories in which it
markets beverage  products to retailers (which include portions of 46 states and
the District of Columbia in the U.S., Canada, Great Britain, continental France,
the Netherlands,  Luxembourg,  Belgium and Monaco) contain  approximately 79% of
the United States  population,  98% of the population of Canada, and 100% of the
populations of Great Britain,  continental France, the Netherlands,  Luxembourg,
Belgium and Monaco.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     Excluding products in post-mix (fountain) form, in 2001,  approximately 61%
of the unit  case  volume  of  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  was  Coca-Cola  Trademark
Beverages, approximately 31% of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark
Beverages, and approximately 8% of its unit case volume was beverage products of
other   companies.   Coca-Cola   Enterprises'   net   operating   revenues  were
approximately $15.7 billion in 2001.

     COCA-COLA HBC S.A.  ("COCA-COLA  HBC"). At December 31, 2001, our Company's
ownership  interest in Coca-Cola HBC was  approximately  24%.  Coca-Cola HBC has
bottling and distribution rights, through direct ownership or joint ventures, in
Armenia, Austria, Belarus, Bosnia, Bulgaria,  Croatia, Czech Republic,  Estonia,
Greece,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Northern  Ireland,  Republic of Ireland,
Italy, Macedonia, Moldova, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Switzerland,   Ukraine  and   Yugoslavia.   Coca-Cola  HBC  estimates  that  the
territories in which it markets beverage  products contain  approximately 67% of
the population of Italy and 100% of the populations of the other countries named
above in which Coca-Cola HBC has bottling and distribution rights.

     In 2001,  Coca-Cola HBC's net sales of beverage products were approximately
U.S.$3.1  billion.  In  2001,  approximately  54% of the  unit  case  volume  of
Coca-Cola HBC was Coca-Cola Trademark  Beverages,  approximately 40% of its unit
case volume was other Company  Trademark  Beverages and  approximately 6% of its
unit case volume was beverage products of Coca-Cola HBC or other companies.

     COCA-COLA AMATIL LIMITED  ("COCA-COLA  AMATIL").  At December 31, 2001, our
Company's   ownership  interest  in  Coca-Cola  Amatil  was  approximately  35%.
Coca-Cola  Amatil is the largest bottler of the Company's  beverage  products in
Australia  and  also  has  bottling  and  distribution  rights,  through  direct
ownership or joint ventures, in New Zealand,  Fiji, Papua New Guinea,  Indonesia
and South Korea.  Coca-Cola  Amatil  estimates that the  territories in which it
markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  99%  of the  population  of
Australia,  100% of the populations of New Zealand, Fiji and South Korea, 86% of
the population of Papua New Guinea and 98% of the population of Indonesia.

     In  2001,   Coca-Cola   Amatil's  net  sales  of  beverage   products  were
approximately  U.S.$1.9  billion.  In 2001,  approximately  60% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola Amatil was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages,  approximately 30%
of its unit case volume was other Company Trademark Beverages,  approximately 5%
of  its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  Coca-Cola  Amatil  and
approximately  5% of its  unit  case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  other
companies.

     PANAMERICAN BEVERAGES, INC. ("PANAMCO").  At December 31, 2001, our Company
owned an equity interest of approximately 25% in Panamco,  a Panamanian  holding
company with bottling  subsidiaries  operating in a substantial  part of central
Mexico (excluding  Mexico City);  greater Sao Paulo, Campinas,  Santos and Matto
Grosso do Sul, Brazil;  central  Guatemala;  most of Colombia;  and all of Costa
Rica,  Venezuela and Nicaragua.  Panamco estimates that the territories in which
it markets  beverage  products  contain  approximately  19% of the population of
Mexico, 16% of the population of Brazil, 94% of the population of Colombia,  47%
of the  population  of  Guatemala  and 100% of the  populations  of Costa  Rica,
Venezuela and Nicaragua.

     In 2001,  Panamco's  net  sales of  beverage  products  were  approximately
U.S.$2.7 billion. In 2001,  approximately 51% of the unit case volume of Panamco
was Coca-Cola Trademark Beverages, approximately 23% of its unit case volume was
other Company Trademark  Beverages and approximately 26% of its unit case volume
was beverage products of Panamco or other companies.

     COCA-COLA FEMSA, S.A. DE C.V.  ("COCA-COLA  FEMSA").  At December 31, 2001,
our Company owned a 30% equity  interest in Coca-Cola  FEMSA, a Mexican  holding
company  with  bottling   subsidiaries   in  the  Valley  of  Mexico,   Mexico's
southeastern  region  and  Greater  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina.  Coca-Cola  FEMSA
estimates that the  territories in which it markets  beverage  products  contain
approximately  30% of the  population  of Mexico  and  approximately  31% of the
population of Argentina.

     In  2001,   Coca-Cola   FEMSA's  net  sales  of  beverage   products   were
approximately  U.S.$1.9  billion.  In 2001,  approximately  74% of the unit case
volume of Coca-Cola FEMSA was Coca-Cola Trademark  Beverages,  approximately 26%
of its unit case volume was other Company  Trademark  Beverages and less than 1%
of its unit case  volume  was  beverage  products  of  Coca-Cola  FEMSA or other
companies.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     OTHER  INTERESTS.  Our Company owns a 50% interest in a joint  venture with
Nestle S.A.  and  certain  of  its  subsidiaries   which  is  focused  upon  the
ready-to-drink tea and coffee businesses.  The joint venture currently has sales
in the United States and approximately 30 other countries.

     On January 30, 2001, our Company and Nestle S.A. announced plans to further
develop the joint  venture,  including by expanding  its scope to virtually  all
countries other than Japan, and to rename the joint venture  "Beverage  Partners
Worldwide"  ("BPW").   The  purpose  of  the  restructuring  was  to  create  an
entrepreneurial  unit  dedicated  to tapping  the growth  potential  of emerging
beverage  segments,  particularly  ready-to-drink  teas and  coffees and certain
beverages with a healthful positioning.

     Brands already within the joint venture  include Nestea and Nescafe for the
ready-to-drink  categories.  As a part of the  restructuring,  our Company is to
contribute to BPW the Planet Java coffee business,  the Mad River  noncarbonated
drink  business  and the Yang  Guang and Nagomi tea  businesses,  among  others.
Nestle will contribute its Belte tea business and certain other businesses.

     In March 2001,  our Company and Nestle S.A.  signed an amended and restated
shareholders   agreement  as  the  first  step  in   undertaking   the  proposed
restructuring.  In late  2001,  the  restructuring  was  granted  all  necessary
competition  law  approvals.  Our Company is  currently  working  with Nestle to
finalize the legal  documentation  necessary to effectuate the transaction,  and
expects this to be completed in the near future.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
- ------------------
     In  February  2001,  our  Company  reached  agreement  with  Carlsberg  A/S
("Carlsberg")  for the dissolution of Coca-Cola  Nordic  Beverages  ("CCNB"),  a
joint  venture  bottler  which was  51%-owned by Carlsberg  and 49%-owned by the
Company. At that time, CCNB had bottling operations in Sweden, Norway,  Denmark,
Finland and Iceland.  Pursuant to the agreement,  CCNB sold its Iceland bottling
operation  to a  third-party  group of  investors  in May 2001.  Also  under the
agreement with Carlsberg, our Company acquired CCNB's Sweden and Norway bottling
operations in June 2001, increasing the Company's ownership in those bottlers to
100%. At that same time,  Carlsberg acquired CCNB's Denmark and Finland bottling
operations,  increasing  Carlsberg's  ownership in those bottlers to 100%. It is
planned for the CCNB holding company to be liquidated during 2002.

     In July 2001,  our  Company  and San Miguel  Corporation  ("SMC")  acquired
Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines,  Inc. ("CCBPI") from Coca-Cola Amatil. Coca-Cola
Amatil bought back and cancelled approximately 153.9 million shares of its stock
from our Company,  and 219.4 million shares of its stock from SMC, all at A$5.16
per share, in exchange for Coca-Cola  Amatil's  transfer of 1.236 million shares
of CCBPI to our  Company  and SMC.  Upon  completion  of this  transaction,  our
Company owned 35% of the common  shares and 100% of the Preferred B shares,  and
SMC  owned 65% of the  common  shares of CCBPI.  CCBPI  retained  liability  for
approximately A$135.2 million in net debt. Also, prior to the transaction, CCBPI
bought back and  cancelled  certain  shares of its common  stock from  Coca-Cola
Amatil in exchange for a cash payment of A$351.2 million to Coca-Cola Amatil. As
a result of the  transaction,  our Company's  interest in the reduced  equity of
Coca-Cola Amatil was reduced from approximately 38% to approximately 35%.

     In November  2001,  our Company  sold  substantially  all of its  ownership
interests  in various  Russian  bottling  operations  to  Coca-Cola  HBC.  These
consisted  of the  Company's  40%  ownership  interest in a joint  venture  with
Coca-Cola  HBC that  operates  bottling  territories  in Siberia  and in part of
Western  Russia,  together  with  the  Company's  substantially   100%-ownership
interests in bottling  operations  with  territories  covering the  remainder of
Russia.

     In December 2001,  the Company  successfully  completed its  acquisition of
Odwalla,  Inc.  Featuring the Odwalla and Samantha lines of all-natural  juices,
smoothies,  dairy-free  shakes,  pure spring  water and natural  food bars,  the
California-based  company is the leading branded super-premium  beverage company
in the United States.

     The Company has concluded negotiations regarding the terms of a Control and
Profit and Loss ("CPL")  agreement  with certain other share owners of Coca-Cola
Erfrischungsgetraenke AG ("CCEAG"), the largest bottler in Germany, in which the
Company owns approximately a 41% ownership interest. Under the terms of the CPL

                                       8
<PAGE>

agreement,  in early 2002 the Company obtained management control of CCEAG for a
period of up to five years. This transaction will be accounted for as a business
combination.  In  return  for the  management  control  of  CCEAG,  the  Company
guaranteed  annual  payments  in lieu of  dividends  by CCEAG to all other CCEAG
share owners. Additionally,  all CCEAG share owners entered into either a put or
a put/call option agreement with the Company, exercisable at the end of the term
of the CPL agreement at agreed prices.

     In  January  2002,  our  Company  and  CCBPI  acquired  from RFM  Corp.,  a
Philippine  food and beverage  concern,  RFM's 83% ownership  interest in Cosmos
Bottling Corporation ("Cosmos"),  a publicly traded Philippine beverage company.
Our  Company  acquired  direct  and  indirect  ownership   interests  in  Cosmos
effectively totaling  approximately 62%. A subsequent tender offer has been made
by CCBPI and our Company to the remaining  minority share owners and is expected
to close in March 2002.

SEASONALITY
- -----------
     Sales of ready-to-drink  nonalcoholic beverages are somewhat seasonal, with
the second and third calendar quarters  accounting for the highest sales volumes
in the Northern Hemisphere. The volume of sales in the beverages business may be
affected by weather conditions.

COMPETITION
- -----------
     Our  Company  competes  in  the  nonalcoholic   beverages  segment  of  the
commercial beverages industry. That segment is highly competitive, consisting of
numerous firms. These include firms that compete,  like the Company, in multiple
geographical  areas as well as  firms  that are  primarily  local in  operation.
Competitive  products include  carbonates,  packaged water,  juices and nectars,
fruit drinks and dilutables  (including syrups and powdered drinks),  sports and
energy drinks,  coffee and tea, still drinks and other  beverages.  Nonalcoholic
beverages are sold to consumers in both  ready-to-drink  and  not-ready-to-drink
form.

     Most of our Company's  beverages  business  currently is in soft drinks, as
that term is defined in this report. The soft-drink  business,  which is part of
the nonalcoholic beverages segment, is itself highly competitive. Our Company is
the leading seller of soft-drink  concentrates and syrups in the world. Numerous
firms,  however,  compete in that  business.  These consist of a range of firms,
from local to  international,  that  compete  against  the  Company in  numerous
geographical areas.

     Competitive factors with respect to the Company's business include pricing,
advertising  and  sales  promotion  programs,   product  innovation,   increased
efficiency in production  techniques,  the  introduction  of new packaging,  new
vending  and  dispensing  equipment  and brand  and  trademark  development  and
protection.

RAW MATERIALS
- -------------
     The principal  raw material  used by our  Company's  business in the United
States is  high-fructose  corn syrup,  a form of sugar,  which is available from
numerous  domestic  sources and is  historically  subject to fluctuations in its
market price. The principal raw material used by the Company's  business outside
the  United  States  is  sucrose.  Our  Company  has  a  specialized   sweetener
procurement  staff and has not  experienced  any  difficulties  in obtaining its
requirements.  In the United States and certain other countries, the Company has
authorized the use of high-fructose  corn syrup in syrup for Coca-Cola and other
Company  Trademark  Beverages  for  use in  both  fountain  syrup  and  finished
beverages in bottles and cans.

     Generally,  raw  materials  utilized  by our  Company in its  business  are
readily available from numerous sources.  However,  aspartame,  which is usually
used alone or in combination  with either  saccharin or acesulfame  potassium in
the Company's  low-calorie  soft-drink  products,  is currently purchased by the
Company  primarily  from The  NutraSweet  Company  and from  Holland  Sweetener.
Acesulfame potassium is currently purchased from Nutrinova Nutrition Specialties
& Food Ingredients GmbH.

     With  regard to juice and  juice-drink  products,  the citrus  industry  is
subject to the variability of weather conditions,  in particular the possibility
of freezes in central Florida, which may result in higher prices and lower

                                       9

<PAGE>

consumer demand for orange juice  throughout the industry.  Due to our Company's
long-standing  relationship  with a supplier of  high-quality  Brazilian  orange
juice  concentrate,  the  supply of juice  available  that  meets the  Company's
standards is normally adequate to meet demand.

PATENTS, TRADE SECRETS, TRADEMARKS AND COPYRIGHTS
- -------------------------------------------------
     Our Company is the owner of numerous patents, copyrights and trade secrets,
as well as substantial know-how and technology (herein collectively  referred to
as  "technology"),  relating  to  its  products  and  the  processes  for  their
production,  the packages  used for its  products,  the design and  operation of
various  processes  and  equipment  used in its  business  and  certain  quality
assurance  and  financial  software.  Some  of the  technology  is  licensed  to
suppliers  and other  parties.  The  Company's  soft  drink  and other  beverage
formulae are among the important trade secrets of the Company.

     Our  Company  owns  numerous  trademarks  which are very  important  to its
business. Depending upon the jurisdiction,  trademarks are valid as long as they
are in use and/or their  registrations are properly maintained and they have not
been found to have become generic.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be
renewed  indefinitely  as long as the trademarks are in use. The majority of our
Company's  trademark license agreements are included in the Company's  Bottler's
Agreements.  The  Company  has  registered  and  licenses  the  right to use its
trademarks  in  conjunction  with certain  merchandise  other than  nonalcoholic
beverages.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
- -----------------------
     The production,  distribution  and sale in the United States of many of the
Company's  products are subject to the Federal Food,  Drug and Cosmetic Act; the
Occupational  Safety  and Health  Act;  the Lanham  Act;  various  environmental
statutes;  and various other federal,  state and local statutes and  regulations
applicable  to  the  production,   transportation,  sale,  safety,  advertising,
labeling and ingredients of such products.

     A California  law requires  that a specific  warning  appear on any product
that  contains  a  component  listed by the State as having  been found to cause
cancer or birth defects.  The law exposes all food and beverage producers to the
possibility  of having to provide  warnings  on their  products  because the law
recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning
is not  required.  Consequently,  even trace  amounts of listed  components  can
expose affected products to the prospect of warning labels.  Products containing
listed substances that occur naturally in the product or that are contributed to
the product  solely by a municipal  water supply are  generally  exempt from the
warning  requirement.  While no Company beverage products are currently required
to display  warnings under this law, our Company is unable to predict whether an
important  component of a Company  product might be added to the California list
in the future. Our Company is also unable to predict whether or to what extent a
warning  under  this law  would  have an  impact  on  costs or sales of  Company
beverage products.

     Bottlers of the Company's beverage products presently offer non-refillable,
recyclable  containers  in all areas of the United  States and  Canada.  Some of
these  bottlers also offer  refillable  containers,  which are also  recyclable.
Measures have been enacted in various localities and states which require that a
deposit be charged for certain non- refillable beverage containers.  The precise
requirements imposed by these measures vary. Other deposit, recycling or product
stewardship  proposals have been  introduced in states and localities and in the
Congress,  and the Company  anticipates that similar  legislation or regulations
may be proposed in the future at the local,  state and federal  levels,  both in
the United States and elsewhere.

     All of our  Company's  facilities  in the  United  States  are  subject  to
federal,  state and local  environmental  laws and regulations.  Compliance with
these provisions has not had, and the Company does not expect such compliance to
have, any material adverse effect upon our Company's capital  expenditures,  net
income or competitive position.

                                       10
<PAGE>

EMPLOYEES
- ---------
     As of December 31, 2001, our Company employed approximately 38,000 persons,
compared  to  approximately  36,900  at the end of  2000.  At the  end of  2001,
approximately 9,800 Company employees were located in the United States.

     Our  Company,  through its  divisions  and  subsidiaries,  has entered into
numerous  collective  bargaining  agreements,  and the  Company has no reason to
believe it will not be able to renegotiate  any such  agreements on satisfactory
terms.  The Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally
satisfactory.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
- ------------------

    Our Company's worldwide headquarters is located on a 35-acre office complex
in Atlanta,  Georgia. The complex includes the approximately 621,000 square foot
headquarters  building,  the  approximately  870,000 square foot Coca-Cola North
America  building and the  approximately  264,000  square foot  Coca-Cola  Plaza
building. Also located in the complex are several other buildings, including the
technical  and  engineering  facilities,   learning  center  and  the  Company's
reception  center.  In the first  quarter of 2001,  the  Company  began  leasing
approximately  250,000  square  feet of  office  space at 10  Glenlake  Parkway,
Atlanta,  Georgia,  as the main  office  for the  Company's  Coca-Cola  Fountain
business unit, which is responsible for fountain sales in the United States.  In
addition,  the Company leases approximately  155,000 square feet of office space
at Northridge Business Park, Dunwoody, Georgia, for some of Coca-Cola Fountain's
operations.   The  Company  has   facilities  for   administrative   operations,
manufacturing,   processing,   packaging,   packing,   storage  and  warehousing
throughout the United States.

     Our Company  owns and  operates 32 principal  beverage  concentrate  and/or
syrup  manufacturing  plants located throughout the world. The Company currently
owns or holds a majority  interest in 19 operations  with 72 principal  beverage
bottling and canning plants located outside the United States.  The Company also
owns a facility that manufactures juice concentrates for food service use.

     In addition,  The Minute Maid  Company,  a Company  division  with business
headquarters located in Houston, Texas, occupies its own office building,  which
contains  approximately  330,000 square feet.  The Minute Maid Company  operates
eight production facilities throughout the United States and Canada and utilizes
a system of contract packers to produce and distribute certain products in areas
where The Minute Maid  Company  does not have its own  manufacturing  centers or
during periods when it experiences shortfalls in manufacturing capacity.

     Our  Company  owns  or  leases   additional   real   estate,   including  a
Company-owned  office and retail  building at 711 Fifth Avenue in New York,  New
York and approximately 315,000 square feet of Company-owned office and technical
space in  Brussels,  Belgium.  Additional  owned or leased real  estate  located
throughout  the world is used by the  Company  as office  space,  for  bottling,
warehouse or retail operations or, in the case of some owned property, is leased
to others.

     Management  believes that the facilities for the production of its products
are suitable and adequate  for the  business  conducted  therein,  that they are
being  appropriately  utilized in line with past  experience  and that they have
sufficient  production capacity for their present intended purposes.  The extent
of  utilization  of such  facilities  varies based upon the seasonal  demand for
product.  While it is not  possible to measure  with any degree of  certainty or
uniformity  the   productive   capacity  and  extent  of  utilization  of  these
facilities,  management  believes that additional  production can be obtained at
the existing  facilities by the addition of personnel and capital equipment and,
in some  facilities,  the  addition of shifts of  personnel or expansion of such
facilities.  Our Company continuously  reviews its anticipated  requirements for
facilities  and,  on the basis of that  review,  may from  time to time  acquire
additional facilities and/or dispose of existing facilities.

                                       11
<PAGE>

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- -------------------------

     On October 27, 2000, a class action  lawsuit was filed in the United States
District Court for the Northern  District of Georgia  alleging that the Company,
M.  Douglas  Ivester,  Jack L. Stahl and James E.  Chestnut  violated  antifraud
provisions  of the  federal  securities  laws by  making  misrepresentations  or
material omissions relating to the Company's  financial  condition and prospects
in late 1999 and early 2000 (the "Carpenters  Health & Welfare Fund Action").  A
second,  largely  identical  lawsuit  was filed in the same court on November 9,
2000 (the  "LaValla  Action").  The  Complaints  allege that the Company and the
individual  named  officers:  (1) forced certain  Coca-Cola  system  bottlers to
accept "excessive,  unwanted and unneeded" sales of concentrate during the third
and fourth quarters of 1999, thus creating a misleading  sense of improvement in
our Company's performance in those quarters;  (2) failed to write down the value
of impaired  assets in Russia,  Japan and  elsewhere  on a timely  basis,  again
resulting in the  presentation of misleading  interim  financial  results in the
third and fourth  quarters of 1999; and (3)  misrepresented  the reasons for Mr.
Ivester's  departure  from the  Company  and  then  misleadingly  reassured  the
financial  community  that  there  would be no  changes  in the  Company's  core
business strategy or financial  outlook following that departure.  Damages in an
unspecified amount are sought in both Complaints.

     On January 8, 2001,  an order was entered by Judge  Willis B. Hunt,  Jr. of
the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Northern   District  of  Georgia
consolidating  the two cases for all  purposes.  Judge  Hunt  also  ordered  the
plaintiffs  to  file  a  Consolidated  Amended  Complaint.  On  July  25,  2001,
plaintiffs filed a Consolidated  Amended  Complaint,  which largely repeated the
allegations  made in the  original  Complaints  and added  Douglas N. Daft as an
additional defendant.

     On September 25, 2001,  the Company filed a Motion to Dismiss all counts of
the  Consolidated  Amended  Complaint.  Plaintiffs  filed their  response to the
Motion to Dismiss on December 10, 2001, and the Company filed its reply brief on
January 18, 2002. A decision on the Motion to Dismiss is expected in 2002.

     The Company  believes it has  meritorious  legal and factual  defenses  and
intends to defend the consolidated action vigorously.

     The Company is involved in various other legal  proceedings.  Management of
the Company  believes  that any  liability  to the Company  which may arise as a
result of these proceedings,  including the proceedings  specifically  discussed
above, will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- -----------------------------------------------------------

Not applicable.

ITEM X. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
- -----------------------------------------

     The following are the executive officers of our Company:

          Douglas N. Daft,  58, is Chairman of the Board of Directors  and Chief
     Executive Officer of the Company.  In November 1984, Mr. Daft was appointed
     President  of  the  Central  Pacific  Division.  In  October  1987,  he was
     appointed Senior Vice President,  of the Pacific Group of the International
     Business  Sector.  In December  1988,  he was named  President of Coca-Cola
     (Japan) Company, Limited and President of the North Pacific Division of the
     International  Business Sector.  Effective 1991, he was elected Senior Vice
     President of the Company and named  President  of the Pacific  Group of the
     International Business Sector. He was appointed President of the Middle and
     Far East Group in January 1995 and served in that  capacity  until  October
     1999 when he also was given  responsibilities  for the Africa Group and the
     Schweppes Beverages Division.  He was elected President and Chief Operating
     Officer  and a Director  of the  Company in  December  1999.  Mr.  Daft was
     elected to his current positions in February 2000.

          Brian G. Dyson,  66, is Vice Chairman and Chief  Operating  Officer of
     the Company.  Mr. Dyson joined the Company in Venezuela in 1959, and worked
     for many years in South America,  the Caribbean and Mexico.

                                       12
<PAGE>

     In 1978 he was named  President of Coca-Cola  USA, the Company's  U.S. soft
     drink division.  In 1983 he was named President of Coca-Cola North America,
     with  responsibility for the Company's entire North American  business.  In
     1986 Mr. Dyson was named President and Chief Executive Officer of Coca-Cola
     Enterprises,  the company's largest bottler;  and in 1991 he was named Vice
     Chairman of Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  Mr. Dyson  retired from the  Coca-Cola
     system in 1994,  but  remained  active as a consultant  to the Company.  In
     August 2001, he came out of retirement and accepted his current positions.

          Alexander R.C.  Allan,  57, is Executive Vice President of the Company
     and President and Chief Operating Officer, Europe, Eurasia and Middle East.
     Mr. Allan joined  Coca-Cola  Bottling Company of Johannesburg in 1968 as an
     Internal  Auditor.  He was  appointed  the  financial  Controller  for  the
     Southern  Africa  Division of The  Coca-Cola  Company in 1978 and Assistant
     Division  Manager and Finance  Manager of the Southern  and Central  Africa
     Division in 1986.  From January 1986 until  January  1993, he served as the
     Managing  Director of National  Beverage  Services (Pty) Ltd., a management
     and services  company in South  Africa.  In January  1993, he was appointed
     President of the Middle East Division  (renamed  Middle East & North Africa
     division in 1998).  Mr. Allan was  appointed  President of the Middle & Far
     East Group in October 1999.  On March 4, 2001,  Mr. Allan was named head of
     the newly created Asia  strategic  business unit of the Company.  Mr. Allan
     was  elected to his  current  position  in April  2001,  and was  appointed
     President  and Chief  Operating  Officer of the Europe,  Eurasia and Middle
     East strategic business unit as of January 1, 2002.

          Jeffrey T. Dunn,  44, is Executive  Vice  President of the Company and
     President  and Chief  Operating  Officer,  Americas.  Mr.  Dunn  joined the
     Company in 1981. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Dunn served in various positions in
     Coca-Cola  USA  Fountain.  In 1990,  Mr.  Dunn was  named  Vice  President,
     Presence  Marketing,  Coca-Cola  USA. In 1994,  he rejoined  Coca-Cola  USA
     Fountain  as Vice  President,  Marketing  and in May 1996,  was named  Vice
     President,  Field  Sales and  Marketing.  He was named Vice  President  and
     General  Manager,  Coca-Cola USA Fountain in February 1998, and Senior Vice
     President,  Coca-Cola USA Fountain in June 1998. In January 2000,  Mr. Dunn
     was  appointed  Senior  Vice  President  of  The  Coca-Cola  North  America
     Marketing  Division.  Mr. Dunn was elected  Senior  Vice  President  of the
     Company and  President of the North America Group in October 2000. On March
     4, 2001,  Mr. Dunn was named head of the newly created  Americas  strategic
     business unit of the Company.  Mr. Dunn was elected to his current position
     in April 2001.

          Steven J. Heyer,  49, is Executive  Vice  President of the Company and
     President and Chief Operating Officer,  Coca-Cola  Ventures.  Mr. Heyer was
     named head of the newly created Coca-Cola  Ventures strategic business unit
     of the Company and was elected to his current  position in April 2001.  Mr.
     Heyer joined the Company  from AOL Time Warner,  where he served since 1996
     as President and Chief  Operating  Officer of Turner  Broadcasting  System,
     Inc. Mr. Heyer joined TBS, Inc. in 1994 as President of Turner Broadcasting
     Sales,  Inc.  Prior to that,  Mr. Heyer was President  and Chief  Operating
     Officer of Young & Rubicam Advertising Worldwide, as well as Executive Vice
     President of Young & Rubicam, Inc. In addition,  Mr. Heyer was for 15 years
     with Booz Allen & Hamilton,  Inc. and served as Senior Vice  President  and
     Managing  Partner of the firm's New York office and leader of its Marketing
     Practice Worldwide.

          Mary E. Minnick,  42, is Executive  Vice  President of the Company and
     President and Chief Operating Officer, Asia. Ms. Minnick joined the Company
     in 1983 and spent ten years  working in Fountain  Sales and the  Bottle/Can
     Division of Coca-Cola  USA. In 1993,  she joined  Corporate  Marketing.  In
     1996, she was appointed  Vice  President and Director,  Middle and Far East
     Marketing,  and served in that  capacity  until 1997 when she was appointed
     President of the South Pacific  Division.  In 2000, she was named President
     of Coca-Cola  (Japan) Company Ltd. Ms. Minnick was appointed  President and
     Chief Operating  Officer of the Asia strategic  business unit as of January
     1, 2002, and was elected to her current position in February 2002.

          Deval L. Patrick,  45 is Executive Vice President and General  Counsel
     of the Company.  He was elected to this position in April 2001. Mr. Patrick
     joined our Company  from Texaco  Inc.,  where he served  since 1999 as Vice
     President  and General  Counsel.  Mr.  Patrick had been a partner  with the
     Boston law firm of Day Berry & Howard LLP since 1997.  Mr. Patrick was also
     Assistant  Attorney  General  of the  United  States  and Chief of the U.S.
     Justice  Department's  Civil Rights Division from 1994 until 1997, where he
     was responsible for enforcing federal laws prohibiting discrimination.

                                       13
<PAGE>

          Carl  Ware,  58, is  Executive  Vice  President,  Public  Affairs  and
     Administration.  In 1979,  Mr. Ware was appointed Vice  President,  Special
     Markets,  Coca-Cola  USA. In March 1982, he was appointed  Vice  President,
     Urban  Affairs,  of the Company.  He was elected  Senior Vice President and
     Director,  Corporate  External  Affairs  in 1986 and  became  Deputy  Group
     President  of  the  Northeast  Europe/Africa  Group  of  the  International
     Business Sector in July 1991. In January 1993 he was appointed President of
     the Africa Group.  Mr. Ware was elected to his current  position in January
     2000.

          Gary P.  Fayard,  49, is Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
     Officer of the Company.  Mr.  Fayard  joined the Company in April 1994.  In
     July 1994, he was elected Vice President and  Controller.  Prior to joining
     the Company,  Mr.  Fayard was a partner with Ernst & Young.  Mr. Fayard was
     elected to his current position in December 1999.

          Stephen C. Jones,  46, is Senior Vice  President  and Chief  Marketing
     Officer of the Company.  Mr. Jones joined Coca-Cola Canada in 1986 as Brand
     Manager for Sprite.  In 1988, he joined  Coca-Cola USA as Brand Manager for
     diet Coke and Sprite.  Mr. Jones was named Marketing  Manager for Coca-Cola
     Great Britain in 1990 and was promoted to Regional Manager, Coca-Cola Great
     Britain in 1991 and to  Marketing  Director,  Coca-Cola  Great  Britain and
     Ireland  Division in 1992. In 1994, he was appointed Senior Vice President,
     Consumer Marketing for Coca-Cola (Japan) Co., Ltd. ("CCJC"),  and was named
     Deputy  Division  Manager and Executive  Vice President of CCJC in 1997. He
     was  appointed  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of The Minute Maid
     Company in October 1999.  Mr. Jones was elected to his current  position in
     January 2000.

     The Executive  Committee is responsible for setting policy and establishing
strategic  direction for the Company. At the date of this report, the members of
the Executive Committee are Mr. Daft, chairman,  Ms. Minnick, and Messrs. Allan,
Dunn, Dyson, Fayard, Heyer, Jones, Patrick and Ware.

     All  executive  officers  serve at the pleasure of the Board of  Directors.
There is no family  relationship  between any of the  executive  officers of the
Company.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHARE-OWNER
        MATTERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 41 through 56,  "Selected  Financial  Data" for the years 2000 and 2001 on
page 86, "Stock  Prices" on page 85 and "Common  Stock,"  "Stock  Exchanges" and
"Dividends"  under  the  heading  "Share-Owner  Information"  on  page 90 of the
Company's  Annual  Report to Share  Owners for the year ended  December 31, 2001
(the "Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners"), are incorporated herein by
reference.

     During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, no equity securities of the
Company were sold by the Company which were not registered  under the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- -------------------------------

     "Selected  Financial Data" for the years 1997 through 2001, on pages 86 and
87 of the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners,  is incorporated  herein
by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     "Financial Review  Incorporating  Management's  Discussion and Analysis" on
pages 41 through 56 of the  Company's  2001 Annual  Report to Share  Owners,  is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

                                       14
<PAGE>

     "Financial  Risk  Management"  on page 45,  and Note 9 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 70 through 72, of the Company's 2001 Annual Report
to Share Owners, are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ---------------------------------------------------

     The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company and its
subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners, are
incorporated herein by reference:

          Consolidated  Statements  of Income - Years ended  December  31, 2001,
          2000 and 1999.

          Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2001 and 2000.

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 2001,
          2000 and 1999.

          Consolidated Statements of Share-Owners' Equity - Years ended December
          31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          Report of Independent Auditors.

     "Quarterly Data (Unaudited)" on page 85 of the Company's 2001 Annual Report
to Share Owners, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

     For  information  on  Directors of the Company,  the  subsection  under the
heading "Election of Directors" entitled "Board of Directors" on pages 5 through
10  and  under  the  heading  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial   Ownership  Reporting
Compliance" on page 13 of the Company's  Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting
of  Share  Owners  to  be  held  April  17,  2002  (the  "Company's  2002  Proxy
Statement"),  is incorporated herein by reference.  See Item X in Part I of this
report for information regarding executive officers of the Company.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

     The  subsection  under  the  heading   "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information about Committees,  Meetings and Compensation of Directors" on pages
14 and 15, the  portion of the section  entitled  "Executive  Compensation"  set
forth  on  pages  17  through  23,  and the  subsection  entitled  "Compensation
Committee  Interlocks  and  Insider  Participation"  on  pages  30 and 31 of the
Company's 2002 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Ownership  of Equity  Securities  in the  Company"  on pages 11  through 13 and
"Principal  Share  Owners"  on pages 13 and 14,  and the  subsection  under  the
heading "Certain Investee  Companies"  entitled  "Ownership of Securities in the
Investee  Companies"  on page 32 of the  Company's  2002  Proxy  Statement,  are
incorporated herein by reference.

                                       15


<PAGE>

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------
     The  subsections  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"   entitled
"Information  about  Committees,  Meetings and  Compensation  of Directors"  and
"Certain  Transactions and Relationships" on pages 14 through 16, the subsection
under the heading  "Executive  Compensation"  entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Interlocks and Insider  Participation"  on pages 30 and 31 and the section under
the heading  "Certain  Investee  Companies"  on pages 31 and 32 of the Company's
2002 Proxy Statement, are incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) 1.  Financial Statements

        The following consolidated financial statements of The Coca-Cola Company
        and subsidiaries,  included in the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share
        Owners, are incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8:

        Consolidated  Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 2001, 2000
        and 1999.

        Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2001 and 2000.

        Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended  December 31, 2001,
        2000 and 1999.

        Consolidated  Statements of Share-Owners'  Equity - Years ended December
        31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

        Report of Independent Auditors.

     2. The following consolidated financial statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
Company and subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

        All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is made in the  applicable
        accounting  regulations  of  the Securities and Exchange  Commission are
        not required under  the  related  instructions or are inapplicable  and,
        therefore, have been omitted.

     3. Exhibits



Exhibit No.
- -----------

3.1       Certificate of  Incorporation  of the  Company, including Amendment of
          Certificate  of  Incorporation, effective  May  1, 1996 - incorporated
          herein  by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
          Report  for  the  quarter  ended  March  31, 1996.  (With  regard  to
          applicable  cross  references in  this  report, the Company's Current,
          Quarterly  and  Annual Reports  are  filed  with  the  Securities  and
          Exchange Commission under File No. 1-2217.)

3.2       By-Laws of the Company,  as amended and restated  through February 21,
          2002.

4.1       The  Company   agrees  to  furnish  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange
          Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the rights
          of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of its

                                       16
<PAGE>

          consolidated  subsidiaries  and unconsolidated  subsidiaries for which
          financial statements are required to  be filed with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission.

10.1.1    The  Key  Executive  Retirement  Plan of the  Company,  as  amended  -
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form
          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.1.2    Third  Amendment to the Key Executive  Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of July 9, 1998 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.1.2 of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3    Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive  Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of February  16, 1999 -  incorporated  herein by reference to
          Exhibit  10.1.3 of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4    Fifth  Amendment to the Key Executive  Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of January 25, 2000 -  incorporated  herein by  reference  to
          Exhibit  10.1.4 of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2      Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.*

10.3      Annual  Performance  Incentive  Plan  of the  Company,  as  amended  -
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form
          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.4      1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 20, 1999 -  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
          the Company's Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the quarter ended March
          31, 1999*

10.5      1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 20, 1999 -  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
          the Company's Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the quarter ended March
          31, 1999.*

10.6      1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 of the
          Company's Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the quarter ended March 31,
          2000.*

10.7      1983  Restricted  Stock Award Plan of the Company,  as amended through
          February 17, 2000 -  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7
          of the Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended  December
          31, 1999.*

10.8      1989  Restricted  Stock Award Plan of the Company,  as amended through
          April 18, 2001.*

10.9.1    Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as amended,
          including Amendment Number Four dated November 28, 1995 - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2    Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation  Deferral & Investment  Program
          of the Company,  effective as of January 1, 1998 - incorporated herein
          by  reference  to Exhibit  10.8.2 of the  Company's  Form 10-K  Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

                                       17
<PAGE>

Exhibit No.
- -----------

10.10     Special  Medical   Insurance  Plan  of  the  Company,   as  amended  -
          incorporated  herein by  reference to Exhibit  10.16 of the  Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.11.1   Supplemental  Benefit Plan of the Company,  as amended -  incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1993.*

10.11.2   Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental  Benefit Plan of the Company
          - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3   Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental  Benefit Plan of the Company,
          dated as of July 1, 1998 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.11.3 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4   Amendment  Number  Seven  to  the  Supplemental  Benefit  Plan  of the
          Company,  dated January 24, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit  10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5   Amendment  Number  Eight  to  the  Supplemental  Benefit  Plan  of the
          Company,  dated January 25, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the
          year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12     Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company,  as amended
          -  incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.*

10.13     Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee  Directors of the Company,
          adopted as of October 16, 1997 -  incorporated  herein by reference to
          Exhibit  10.12 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1997.*

10.14     Long Term  Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company,  as amended and
          restated  effective April 21, 1999 - incorporated  herein by reference
          to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.15     Executive  Performance  Incentive Plan of the Company,  as amended and
          restated  effective April 21, 1999 - incorporated  herein by reference
          to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's  Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16.1   Letter Agreement,  dated December 6, 1999,  between the Registrant and
          M.  Douglas  Ivester -  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit
          10.17.1 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.16.2   Letter Agreement,  dated December 15, 1999, between the Registrant and
          M.  Douglas  Ivester -  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit
          10.17.2 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.16.3   Letter Agreement,  dated February 17, 2000, between the Registrant and
          M.  Douglas  Ivester -  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit
          10.17.3 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual  Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.17     Group Long-Term  Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
          and  restated  effective  February 17, 2000 -  incorporated  herein by
          reference to Exhibit  10.18 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report
          for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

                                       18
<PAGE>

Exhibit No.
- -----------

10.18     Executive  Incentive  Plan of the Company,  adopted as of February 14,
          2001 -  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.19 of the
          Company's  Form 10-K  Annual  Report for the year ended  December  31,
          2000.*

10.19     Restricted  Stock  Agreement,  dated  December 20,  2000,  between the
          Company and Charles S. Frenette - incorporated  herein by reference to
          Exhibit  10.20 of the  Company's  Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 2000.*

10.20     Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended,  between the
          Company and Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc.  ("Coca-Cola  Enterprises") or
          its  subsidiaries - incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.24
          of Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 30, 1988 (File No. 01-09300).

10.21.1   Employment  Agreement,  dated as of  February  21,  2001,  between the
          Company and Deval L. Patrick.*

10.21.2   Letter, dated January 4, 2002, from the Company to Deval L. Patrick.*

10.22.1   Employment  Agreement,  dated  March 2, 2001,  between the Company and
          Steven J. Heyer.*

10.22.2   Letter, dated January 4, 2002, from the Company to Steven J. Heyer.*

10.23     Letter Agreement,  dated March 31, 2001,  between the Company and Jack
          L. Stahl -  incorporated  herein by  reference  to Exhibit 10.4 of the
          Company's Form 10-Q  Quarterly  Report for the quarter ended March 31,
          2001.*

10.24     Letter Agreement,  dated June 12, 2001, between the Company and Joseph
          R. Gladden, Jr.*

10.25     Letter  Agreement,  dated  August 22,  2001,  between  the Company and
          Charles S. Frenette.*

10.26     Letter Agreement,  dated August 22, 2001, between The Coca-Cola Export
          Corporation and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.27     Letter  Agreement,  dated September 17, 2001,  between the Company and
          Brian G. Dyson.*

10.28     Letter,  dated  October  17,  2001,  from  the  Company  to  James  E.
          Chestnut.*

10.29     Resolutions of the  Compensation  Committee of the Company's  Board of
          Directors,  dated  October  17,  2001,  pertaining  to A.R.C.  (Sandy)
          Allan.*

10.30     Deferred Compensation Plan of the Company,  adopted as of December 20,
          2001.*

12.1      Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years ended
          December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

13.1      Portions of the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners expressly
          incorporated by reference herein: Pages 41 through 83, 85  through 87,
          90 and the inside back cover (definitions of "Dividend Payout Ratio,"
          "Economic  Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest  Coverage Ratio," "Net
          Capital," "Net Debt," "Return on Capital,"  "Return on Common Equity,"
          "Total Capital" and "Total Market Value of Common Stock").

21.1      List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2001.

                                       19

<PAGE>

Exhibit No.
- -----------

23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1      Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this report.

99.1      Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements.

- -----------------------

* Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

(b)  Reports  on Form 8-K - The  Company  did not file any  reports  on Form 8-K
     during the last quarter of the period covered by this report.

(c)  Exhibits  - The  response  to this  portion  of Item 14 is  submitted  as a
     separate section of this report.

(d)  Financial  Statement  Schedule - The response to this portion of Item 14 is
     submitted as a separate section of this report.




                                       20

<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
                                             (Registrant)



                                        By:  /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        -------------------------
                                             DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                             Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief
                                             Executive Officer and a Director

                                             Date:  March 11, 2002


        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


/s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT                                     *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
DOUGLAS N. DAFT                         CATHLEEN P. BLACK
Chairman, Board of Directors, Chief     Director
Executive Officer and a Director
(Principal Executive Officer)


March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002


/s/ GARY P. FAYARD                                      *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
GARY P. FAYARD                          WARREN E. BUFFETT
Senior Vice President and Chief         Director
Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)


March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002


/s/ CONNIE D. McDANIEL                                  *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
CONNIE D. McDANIEL                      SUSAN B. KING
Vice President and Controller           Director
(Principal Accounting Officer)


March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
HERBERT A. ALLEN                        DONALD F. McHENRY
Director                                Director

March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
RONALD W. ALLEN                         SAM NUNN
Director                                Director

March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002


                                       21

<PAGE>



                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
PAUL F. OREFFICE                        PETER V. UEBERROTH
Director                                Director

March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002

                *                                       *
- -----------------------------------     ------------------------------------
JAMES D. ROBINSON III                   JAMES B. WILLIAMS
Director                                Director

March 11, 2002                           March 11, 2002







* By: /s/ CAROL C. HAYES
      ----------------------------
      CAROL C. HAYES
      Attorney-in-fact



      March 11, 2002






                                       22
































































</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>koksch.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SCHEDULES
<TEXT>


                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                                   ITEM 14(d)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



<PAGE>


                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Year ended December 31, 2001
                                 (in millions)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                              COL. B                 COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                         <C>           <C>              <C>             <C>             <C>

RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........       $  62         $  20            $  -            $  23          $  59
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................         294             5               -               69            230
    Deferred tax assets..............         641           218               -              296            563
                                            -----         -----            ----            -----          -----

                                            $ 997         $ 243            $  -            $ 388          $ 852
                                            =====         =====            ====            =====          =====





<FN>
- ---------------

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:

</FN>
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                              <C>                        <C>                  <C>             <C>

Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......     $  23                       $  13                $   -         $  36
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                          36                    -            36
Other transactions.........................         -                          20                  296           316
                                                -----                       -----                -----         -----

                                                $  23                       $  69                $ 296         $ 388
                                                =====                       =====                =====         =====

</TABLE>



                                     F-1
<PAGE>




                  SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Year ended December 31, 2000
                                  (in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                              COL. B                 COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>              <C>             <C>             <C>

RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........      $  26          $  37            $   4           $   5            $  62
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................        322             23                -              51              294
    Deferred tax assets..............        443            353                -             155              641
                                           -----          -----            -----           -----            -----

                                           $ 791          $ 413            $   4           $ 211            $ 997
                                           =====          =====            =====           =====            =====




- --------------
<FN>

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:

</FN>
</TABLE>



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                             <C>                         <C>                  <C>             <C>

Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......      $  4                       $  -                  $   -          $   4
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                         51                      -             51
Other transactions.........................         1                          -                    155            156
                                                 ----                       ----                  -----          -----

                                                 $  5                       $ 51                  $ 155          $ 211
                                                 ====                       ====                  =====          =====
</TABLE>


                                      F-2
<PAGE>




                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                     THE COCA-COLA COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Year ended December 31, 1999
                                  (in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      COL. A                                   COL. B             COL. C                    COL. D          COL. E
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                ADDITIONS
                                                         ------------------------
                                                           (1)             (2)
                                         BALANCE AT      CHARGED TO      CHARGED                         BALANCE
                                        BEGINNING OF     COSTS AND       TO OTHER        DEDUCTIONS       AT END
DESCRIPTION                                PERIOD         EXPENSES       ACCOUNTS         (NOTE 1)      OF PERIOD
- -----------                             ------------    -----------      --------        ----------     ---------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>              <C>             <C>
RESERVES DEDUCTED IN THE
  BALANCE SHEET FROM THE
  ASSETS TO WHICH THEY
  APPLY
  Allowance for losses on:
    Trade accounts receivable........      $  10          $  13            $   5           $   2            $  26
    Miscellaneous investments and
      other assets...................        275             43               88              84              322
    Deferred tax assets..............         18            443                -              18              443
                                           -----          -----            -----           -----            -----

                                           $ 303          $ 499            $  93           $ 104            $ 791
                                           =====          =====            =====           =====            =====






- --------------------------
<FN>

Note 1 -  The amounts shown in Column D consist of the following:

</FN>
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                TRADE                   MISCELLANEOUS           DEFERRED
                                               ACCOUNTS                  INVESTMENTS              TAX
                                              RECEIVABLE               AND OTHER ASSETS          ASSETS         TOTAL
                                              ----------               ----------------         --------       -------
<S>                                              <C>                        <C>                  <C>
Charge off of uncollectible accounts.......      $  3                       $  2                  $  -          $   5
Write-off of impaired assets...............         -                         81                     -             81
Other transactions.........................        (1)                         1                    18             18
                                                 ----                       ----                  ----          -----

                                                 $  2                       $ 84                  $ 18          $ 104
                                                 ====                       ====                  ====          =====
</TABLE>

                                      F-3


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>kokx01.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT INDEX
<TEXT>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS


Exhibit No.                         Description
- -----------                         -----------

3.1       Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, including Amendment of
          Certificate of Incorporation, effective May 1, 1996 - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 3 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly
          Report for the quarter ended March 31, 1996. (With regard to
          applicable cross references in this report, the Company's Current,
          Quarterly and Annual Reports are filed with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission under File No. 1-2217.)

3.2       By-Laws of the Company, as amended and restated through February 21,
          2002.

4.1       The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
          Commission, upon request, a copy of any instrument defining the rights
          of holders of long-term debt of the Company and all of its
          consolidated subsidiaries and unconsolidated subsidiaries for which
          financial statements are required to be filed with the Securities and
          Exchange Commission.

10.1.1    The Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company, as amended -
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company's Form
          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.1.2    Third Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of July 9, 1998 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.1.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.1.3    Fourth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of February 16, 1999 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.1.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.1.4    Fifth Amendment to the Key Executive Retirement Plan of the Company,
          dated as of January 25, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.1.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.2      Supplemental Disability Plan of the Company, as amended - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.*

10.3      Annual Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended -
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form
          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.4      1987 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 20, 1999 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
          the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March
          31, 1999*

10.5      1991 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 20, 1999 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
          the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March
          31, 1999.*

10.6      1999 Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended and restated through
          April 18, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 of the
          Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31,
          2000.*

10.7      1983 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended through
          February 17, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7
          of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
          31, 1999.*

10.8      1989 Restricted Stock Award Plan of the Company, as amended through
          April 18, 2001.*


<PAGE>

Exhibit No.                         Description
- -----------                         -----------

10.9.1    Compensation Deferral & Investment Program of the Company, as amended,
          including Amendment Number Four dated November 28, 1995 - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.9.2    Amendment Number 5 to the Compensation Deferral & Investment Program
          of the Company, effective as of January 1, 1998 - incorporated herein
          by reference to Exhibit 10.8.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1997.*

10.10     Special Medical Insurance Plan of the Company, as amended -
          incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.*

10.11.1   Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company, as amended - incorporated
          herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
          Report for the year ended December 31, 1993.*

10.11.2   Amendment Number Five to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company
          - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17.2 of the Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1996.*

10.11.3   Amendment Number Six to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the Company,
          dated as of July 1, 1998 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.11.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.11.4   Amendment Number Seven to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
          Company, dated January 24, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.11.4 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1999.*

10.11.5   Amendment Number Eight to the Supplemental Benefit Plan of the
          Company, dated January 25, 2000 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit of 10.11.5 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
          year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.12     Retirement Plan for the Board of Directors of the Company, as amended
          - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of the Company's
          Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.*

10.13     Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the Company,
          adopted as of October 16, 1997 - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 1997.*

10.14     Long Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended and
          restated effective April 21, 1999 - incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.15     Executive Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended and
          restated effective April 21, 1999 - incorporated herein by reference
          to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1999.*

10.16.1   Letter Agreement, dated December 6, 1999, between the Registrant and
          M. Douglas Ivester - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.17.1 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.16.2   Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 1999, between the Registrant and
          M. Douglas Ivester - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.17.2 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

                                       2

<PAGE>

Exhibit No.                         Description
- -----------                         -----------

10.16.3   Letter Agreement, dated February 17, 2000, between the Registrant and
          M. Douglas Ivester - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
          10.17.3 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
          December 31, 1999.*

10.17     Group Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended
          and restated effective February 17, 2000 - incorporated herein by
          reference to Exhibit 10.18 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report
          for the year ended December 31, 1999.*

10.18     Executive Incentive Plan of the Company, adopted as of February 14,
          2001 - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of the
          Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
          2000.*

10.19     Restricted Stock Agreement, dated December 20, 2000, between the
          Company and Charles S. Frenette - incorporated herein by reference to
          Exhibit 10.20 of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
          ended December 31, 2000.*

10.20     Form of United States Master Bottle Contract, as amended, between the
          Company and Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. ("Coca-Cola Enterprises") or
          its subsidiaries - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.24
          of Coca-Cola Enterprises' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 30, 1988 (File No. 01-09300).

10.21.1   Employment Agreement, dated as of February 21, 2001, between the
          Company and Deval L. Patrick.*

10.21.2   Letter, dated January 4, 2002, from the Company to Deval L. Patrick.*

10.22.1   Employment Agreement, dated March 2, 2001, between the Company and
          Steven J. Heyer.*

10.22.2   Letter, dated January 4, 2002, from the Company to Steven J. Heyer.*

10.23     Letter Agreement, dated March 31, 2001, between the Company and Jack
          L. Stahl - incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the
          Company's Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31,
          2001.*

10.24     Letter Agreement, dated June 12, 2001, between the Company and Joseph
          R. Gladden, Jr.*

10.25     Letter Agreement, dated August 22, 2001, between the Company and
          Charles S. Frenette.*

10.26     Letter Agreement, dated August 22, 2001, between The Coca-Cola Export
          Corporation and Charles S. Frenette.*

10.27     Letter Agreement, dated September 17, 2001, between the Company and
          Brian G. Dyson.*

10.28     Letter, dated October 17, 2001, from the Company to James E.
          Chestnut.*

10.29     Resolutions of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of
          Directors, dated October 17, 2001, pertaining to A.R.C. (Sandy)
          Allan.*

10.30     Deferred Compensation Plan of the Company, adopted as of December 20,
          2001.*

12.1      Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the years ended
          December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

13.1      Portions of the Company's 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners expressly
          incorporated by reference herein: Pages [33 through 67, 69, 72 and the
          inside back cover] (definitions of "Dividend Payout Ratio," "Economic
          Profit," "Free Cash Flow," "Interest Coverage Ratio," "Net Capital,"
          "Net Debt," "Return on Capital," "Return on Common Equity," "Total
          Capital" and "Total Market Value of Common Stock").

                                       3
<PAGE>

Exhibit No.                         Description
- -----------                         -----------

21.1      List of subsidiaries of the Company as of December 31, 2001.

23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors.

24.1      Powers of Attorney of Officers and Directors signing this report.

99.1      Cautionary Statement Relative to Forward-Looking Statements




- -----------------------

* Management contracts and compensatory plans and arrangements required to be
filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>x3-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>BY-LAWS, AS AMENDED 2-22-02
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 3.2



                                    BY-LAWS
                                       OF
                             THE COCA-COLA COMPANY


               AS AMENDED AND RESTATED THROUGH FEBRIARY 21, 2002


                                   ARTICLE I

SHAREHOLDERS:

     Section 1. Place, Date and Time of Holding Annual Meetings. Annual meetings
of shareholders shall be held at such place, date and time as shall be
designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. In the absence of a
resolution adopted by the Board of Directors establishing such place, date and
time, the annual meeting shall be held at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington,
Delaware, on the third Wednesday in April of each year at 9:00 A.M. (local
time).

     Section 2. Voting. Each outstanding share of common stock of the Company is
entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote. Directors shall be
elected by plurality votes cast in the election for such directors. All other
action shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast unless a greater vote
is required by the laws of Delaware. A shareholder may vote in person or by
proxy authorized by an instrument in writing or by a transmission permitted by
law filed in accordance with the procedures established for the meeting. Any
copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing
or transmission created pursuant to this section may be substituted or used in
lieu of the original writing or the transmission that could be used, provided
that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a
complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.

     Section 3. Quorum. The holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding
shares of the common stock of the Company, present in person or represented by
proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of shareholders.

     Section 4. Adjournment of Meetings. In the absence of a quorum or for any
other reason, the chairman of the meeting may adjourn the meeting from time to
time. If the adjournment is not for more than thirty days, the adjourned meeting
may be held without notice other than an announcement at the meeting. If the
adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if a new record date is fixed for
the adjourned meeting, a notice of

<PAGE>

the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled
to vote at such meeting. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is
present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the
meeting originally called.

     Section 5. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the shareholders for any
purpose or purposes may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the
Board of Directors or the President. Special meetings shall be held at the
place, date and time fixed by the Secretary.

     Section 6. Notice of Shareholders Meeting. Written notice, stating the
place, date, hour and purpose of the annual or special meeting shall be given by
the Secretary not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the
meeting to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting.

     Section 7. Organization. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall
preside at all meetings of shareholders. In the absence of, or in case of a
vacancy in the office of, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President,
or in his absence or in the event that the Board of Directors has not selected a
President, any Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior
Vice President or Vice President in order of seniority as specified in this
sentence, and, within each classification of office in order of seniority in
time in that office, shall preside. The Secretary of the Company shall act as
secretary at all meetings of the shareholders and in the Secretary's absence,
the chairman of the meeting may appoint a secretary.

     The Board of Directors of the Company shall be entitled to make such rules
or regulations for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as it shall deem
necessary, appropriate or convenient. Subject to such rules and regulations of
the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting shall have the right
and the authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do
all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate
or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without
limitation, establishing (i) an agenda or order of business for the meeting,
(ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of
those present, (iii) limitations on participation in such meetings to
shareholders of record of the Company and their duly authorized and constituted
proxies, and such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall permit,
(iv) restrictions on entries to the meeting after the time affixed for the
commencement thereof, (v) limitations on the time allotted to the questions or
comments by participants and (vi) regulation of the opening and closing of the
polls for balloting and matters which are to be voted on by ballot. Unless and
to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the
meeting, meetings of shareholders shall not be required to be held in accordance
with rules of parliamentary procedure.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     Section 8. Inspectors of Election. All votes by ballot at any meeting of
shareholders shall be conducted by such number of inspectors of election as are
appointed for that purpose by either the Board of Directors or by the chairman
of the meeting. The inspectors of election shall decide upon the qualifications
of voters, count the votes and declare the results.

     Section 9. Record Date. The Board of Directors, in order to determine the
shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or
any adjournment thereof, or entitled to express consent to corporate action in
writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or
other distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights
in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of
any other lawful action, shall fix in advance a record date which shall not be
more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more
than sixty days prior to any other action and in such case only such
shareholders as shall be shareholders of record on the date so fixed, shall be
entitled to such notice of or to vote at such meeting or any adjournment
thereof, or entitled to express consent to such corporate action in writing
without a meeting, or be entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or
other distribution or allotment of any rights or be entitled to exercise any
such rights in respect of stock or to take any such other lawful action, as the
case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the
Company after any such record date fixed as aforesaid.

     Section 10. Notice of Shareholder Proposals. At any annual or special
meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have
been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an
annual or special meeting, business must be: (A) specified in the notice of
meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors, (B) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the
direction of the Board of Directors, or (C) otherwise properly brought before
the meeting by a shareholder. In order for business to be properly brought
before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given
timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company and such
proposal must be a proper matter for shareholder action under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To be timely, a shareholder's notice
must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices
of the Company not later than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth
(120th) calendar day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's
annual meeting ; provided, however, that in the event no annual meeting was held
in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more
than thirty (30) days notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received
not later than the close of business on the later of one hundred twenty (120)
calendar days in advance of such annual meeting or ten (10) calendar days
following the date on which public announcement of the date of the meeting is
first made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each
matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the

                                       3
<PAGE>

annual meeting: (i) a brief description of the business desired to be
brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business
at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the
Company's books, of the shareholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and
number of shares of the Company which are beneficially owned by the shareholder,
(iv) any material interest of the shareholder in such business, and (v) any
other information that is required to be provided by the shareholder pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934
Act"), in his capacity as a proponent to a shareholder proposal. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, in order to include information with respect to a shareholder
proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for a shareholders' meeting,
shareholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated
under the 1934 Act. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary,
no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this Section 10. The chairman of the meeting shall,
if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that business was not
properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of
this Section 10, and, if he should so determine, he shall so declare at the
meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not
be transacted.

     Section 11. Election of Directors. Only persons who are nominated in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11 shall be eligible
for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of
Directors of the Company may be made (i) at an annual or special meeting of
shareholders by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) at an
annual meeting by any shareholder of the Company entitled to vote in the
election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set
forth in this Section 11. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the
direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in
writing to the Secretary of the Company in accordance with the provisions of
Section 10. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person, if
any, whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a
director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such
person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class
and number of shares of the Company which are beneficially owned by such person,
(D) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder
and each nominee or any other person or persons (naming such person or persons)
pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the shareholder, and (E) any
other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in
solicitations of proxies for elections of directors, or is otherwise required,
in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including, without
limitation, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement,
if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (ii) as to
such shareholder giving notice, the information required to be provided pursuant
to Section 10. At the request of the Board

                                       4
<PAGE>

of Directors, any person nominated by a shareholder for election as a director
shall furnish to the Secretary of the Company that information required to be
set forth in the shareholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the
nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Company
unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11.
The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare
at the meeting that nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures
prescribed by these By-Laws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare
at the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.

                                   ARTICLE II

DIRECTORS:

     Section 1. Number and Term and Classes of Directors. The whole Board of
Directors shall consist of not less than ten (10) nor more than twenty (20)
members, the exact number to be set from time to time by the Board of Directors.
No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent
director. In absence of the Board of Directors setting the number of directors,
the number shall be 20. The Board of Directors shall be divided into three
classes of as nearly equal size as practicable. The term of office of the
members of each class shall expire at the third annual meeting of shareholders
following the election of such members, and at each annual meeting of
shareholders, directors shall be chosen for a term of three years to succeed
those whose terms expire; provided, whenever classes are or, after the next
annual meeting of shareholders, will be uneven, the shareholders, for the sole
purpose of making the number of members in such class as equal as practicable,
may elect one or more members of such class for less than 3 years.

     Section 2. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors
shall be held at such times as the Board of Directors may determine from time to
time.

     Section 3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may
be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Secretary or by a
majority of the directors by written request to the Secretary.

     Section 4. Notice of Meetings. The Secretary shall give notice of all
meetings of the Board of Directors by mailing the notice at least three days
before each meeting or by telegraphing or telephoning the directors not later
than one day before the meeting. The notice shall state the time, date and place
of the meeting, which shall be determined by the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, or, in absence of the Chairman, by the Secretary of the Company,
unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors.

                                       5

<PAGE>

     Section 5. Quorum and Voting. A majority of the directors holding office
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except as otherwise
specifically required by Delaware law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of
the Company or by these By-Laws, any action required to be taken shall be
authorized by a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a
quorum is present.

     Section 6. General Powers of Directors. The business and affairs of the
Company shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.

     Section 7. Chairman. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the
Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside and in the absence of, or in
the case of a vacancy in the office of, the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
a chairman selected by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or, if he fails to
do so, by the directors, shall preside. Section 8. Compensation of Directors.
Directors and members of any committee of the Board of Directors shall be
entitled to such reasonable compensation and fees for their services as shall be
fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and shall also
be entitled to reimbursement for any reasonable expenses incurred in attending
meetings of the Board of Directors and any committee thereof, except that a
Director who is an officer or employee of the Company shall receive no
compensation or fees for serving as a Director or a committee member.

     Section 9. Qualification of Directors. Each person who shall attain the age
of 74 shall not thereafter be eligible for nomination or renomination as a
member of the Board of Directors.

     Any director who was elected or reelected because he or she was an officer
of the Company at the time of that election or the most recent reelection shall
resign as a member of the Board of Directors simultaneously when he or she
ceases to be an officer of the Company.

                                  ARTICLE III

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:

     Section 1. Committees of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors
shall designate an Executive Committee, a Finance Committee, an Audit Committee,
a Compensation Committee, a Committee on Directors and a Public Issues and
Diversity Review Committee, each of which shall have and may exercise the powers
and authority of the Board of Directors to the extent hereinafter provided. The
Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees of the Board
of Directors with such powers as shall be specified in the resolution of the
Board of Directors. Each committee shall

                                       6
<PAGE>

consist of such number of directors as shall be determined from time to time
by resolution of the Board of Directors.

     Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings. All action taken
by a committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its meeting next
succeeding such action and shall be subject to approval and revision by the
Board, provided that no legal rights of third parties shall be affected by such
revisions.

     The Chairman of the Board shall have the power and authority of a committee
of the Board of Directors for purposes of taking any action which the Chairman
of the Board is authorized to take under the provisions of this Article.

     Section 2. Election of Committee Members. The members of each committee
shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall serve until the first
meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of shareholders and
until their successors are elected and qualified or until the members' earlier
resignation or removal. The Board of Directors may designate the Chairman and
Vice Chairman of each committee. Vacancies may be filled by the Board of
Directors at any meeting.

     The Chairman of the Board may designate one or more directors to serve as
an alternate member or members at any committee meeting to replace any absent or
disqualified member, such alternate or alternates to serve for that committee
meeting only, and the Chairman of the Board may designate a committee member as
acting chairman of that committee, in the absence of the elected committee
chairman, to serve for that committee meeting only.

     Section 3. Procedure/Quorum/Notice. The Committee Chairman, Vice Chairman
or a majority of any committee may call a meeting of that committee. A quorum of
any committee shall consist of a majority of its members unless otherwise
provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. The majority vote of a quorum
shall be required for the transaction of business. The secretary of the
committee or the chairman of the committee shall give notice of all meetings of
the committee by mailing the notice to the members of the committee at least
three days before each meeting or by telegraphing or telephoning the members not
later than one day before the meeting. The notice shall state the time, date and
place of the meeting. Each committee shall fix its other rules of procedure.

     Section 4. Executive Committee. During the interval between meetings of the
Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall have and may exercise the
powers of the Board of Directors, to act upon any matters which, in the opinion
of the Chairman of the Board, should not be postponed until the next previously
scheduled meeting of the Board of Directors; but, to the extent prohibited by
law, shall not have the power or authority of the Board of Directors in
reference to (1) approving or adopting, or

                                       7
<PAGE>

recommending to the shareholders, any action or matter expressly required
by the Delaware General Corporation Law to be submitted to shareholders for
approval or (2) adopting, amending or repealing any By-Law of the Company.

     Section 5. Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall periodically
formulate and recommend for approval to the Board of Directors the financial
policies of the Company, including management of the financial affairs of the
Company and its accounting policies. The Finance Committee shall have prepared
for approval by the Board of Directors annual budgets and such financial
estimates as it deems proper; shall have oversight of the budget and of all the
financial operations of the Company and from time to time shall report to the
Board of Directors on the financial condition of the Company. All capital
expenditures of the Company shall be reviewed by the Finance Committee and
recommended for approval to the Board of Directors. The Finance Committee may
authorize another committee of the Board of Directors or one or more of the
officers of the Company to approve borrowings, loans, capital expenditures and
guarantees up to such specified amounts or upon such conditions as the Finance
Committee may establish, subject to the approval of the Board of Directors; and
to open bank accounts and designate those persons authorized to execute checks,
notes, drafts and other orders for payment of money on behalf of the Company.

     Section 6. Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall have the power to
recommend to the Board of Directors the selection and engagement of independent
accountants to audit the books and accounts of the Company and the discharge of
the independent accountants. The Audit Committee shall review the scope of the
audits as recommended by the independent accountants, the scope of the internal
auditing procedures of the Company and the system of internal accounting
controls and shall review the reports to the Audit Committee of the independent
accountants and the internal auditors.

     Section 7. Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall have
the powers and authorities vested in it by the incentive, stock option and
similar plans of the Company. The Compensation Committee shall have the power to
approve, disapprove, modify or amend all plans designed and intended to provide
compensation primarily for officers of the Company. There may be one or more
subcommittees of the Compensation Committee which shall have all of the power
and authority of the Compensation Committee to act on those matters as to which
there is any question concerning the propriety of action by the Compensation
Committee in the specific case because of any law, rule or regulation relating
to the status of its members. The members of each such subcommittee shall be
designated by the Board of Directors, the Compensation Committee or by the
Chairman of the Board and may include directors who are not members of the
Compensation Committee.

                                       8

<PAGE>

     Section 8. Committee on Directors. The Committee on Directors shall have
the power to recommend candidates for election to the Board of Directors and
shall consider nominees for directorships submitted by shareholders. The
Committee on Directors shall consider issues involving potential conflicts of
interest of directors and committee members and recommend and review all matters
relating to fees and retainers paid to directors, committee members and
committee chairmen.

     Section 9. Public Issues and Diversity Review Committee. The Public Issues
and Diversity Review Committee shall have the power to review Company policy and
practice relating to (1) significant public issues of concern to the
shareholders, the Company, the business community and the general public; and
(2) the Company's progress toward its diversity goals, compliance with its
responsibilities as an equal opportunity employer, and compliance with any court
orders arising out of employment discrimination class action litigation. The
Committee may also review management's position on shareholder proposals
involving issues of public interest to be presented at annual or special
meetings of shareholders.

                                   ARTICLE IV

NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE:

     Section 1. Notice. Any notice required to be given to shareholders or
directors under these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or by law may be
given by mailing the same, addressed to the person entitled thereto, at such
person's last known post office address and such notice shall be deemed to be
given at the time of such mailing.

     Section 2. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given
under these By-Laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or by law, a waiver
thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the
time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a
person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except
when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the
beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting
is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at,
nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the shareholders, directors
or a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.

                                   ARTICLE V

OFFICERS:

     Section 1. Officers of the Company. The officers of the Company shall be
selected by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board of
Directors, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board
of Directors may elect a

                                       9
<PAGE>

Vice Chairman, President and a Controller and one or more of the following:
Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice
President, Assistant Vice President, Assistant Secretary, Associate Treasurer,
Assistant Treasurer, Associate Controller and Assistant Controller. Two or more
offices may be held by the same person.

     The Company may have a General Counsel who shall be appointed by the Board
of Directors and shall have general supervision of all matters of a legal nature
concerning the Company, unless the Board of Directors has also appointed a
General Tax Counsel, in which event the General Tax Counsel shall have general
supervision of all tax matters of a legal nature concerning the Company.

     The Company may have a Chief Financial Officer who shall be appointed by
the Board of Directors and shall have general supervision over the financial
affairs of the Company. The Company may also have a Chief of Internal Audits who
shall be appointed by the Board of Directors.

     Section 2. Election of Officers. At the first meeting of the Board of
Directors after each annual meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors
shall elect the officers. From time to time the Board of Directors may elect
other officers.

     Section 3. Tenure of Office; Removal. Each officer shall hold office until
the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of
shareholders following the officer's election and until the officer's successor
is elected and qualified or until the officer's earlier resignation or removal.
Each officer shall be subject to removal at any time, with or without cause, by
the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.

     Section 4. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of
Directors shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and subject to the
overall direction and supervision of the Board of Directors and Committees
thereof shall be in general charge of the affairs of the Company; and shall
consult and advise with the Board of Directors and committees thereof on the
business and the affairs of the Company. The Chairman of the Board of Directors
shall have the power to make and execute contracts on behalf of the Company and
to delegate such power to others.

     Section 5. President. The Board of Directors may select a President who
shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board
of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the absence or
disability of the President his or her duties shall be performed by such Vice
Presidents as the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors
may designate. The President shall also have the power to make and execute
contracts on the Company's behalf and to delegate such power to others.

                                       10
<PAGE>

     Section 6. Vice Presidents. Each Senior Executive Vice President, Executive
Vice President, Senior Vice President and Vice President shall have such powers
and perform such duties as may be assigned to the Officer by the Board of
Directors or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President.

     Section 7. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of
the shareholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall keep, or cause to be
kept, minutes of all meetings of Committees of the Board of Directors, except
where such responsibility is otherwise fixed by the Board of Directors. The
Secretary shall issue all notices for meetings of the shareholders and Board of
Directors and shall have charge of and keep the seal of the Company and shall
affix the seal attested by the Secretary's signature to such instruments as may
properly require same. The Secretary shall cause to be kept such books and
records as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the
President may require; and shall cause to be prepared, recorded, transferred,
issued, sealed and cancelled certificates of stock as required by the
transactions of the Company and its shareholders. The Secretary shall attend to
such correspondence and such other duties as may be incident to the office of
the Secretary or assigned by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board
of Directors, or the President.

     In the absence of the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary is authorized to
assume the duties herein imposed upon the Secretary.

     Section 8. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall perform all duties and acts
incident to the position of Treasurer, shall have custody of the Company funds
and securities, and shall deposit all money and other valuable effects in the
name and to the credit of the Company in such depositories as may be designated
by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Company
as may be authorized, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall
render to the Board of Directors, whenever required, an account of all the
transactions of the Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Company. The
Treasurer shall vote all of the stock owned by the Company in any corporation
and may delegate this power to others. The Treasurer shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned to the Treasurer and shall report to the Chief
Financial Officer or, in the absence of the Chief Financial Officer, to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors.

     In the absence of the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer is authorized to
assume the duties herein imposed upon the Treasurer.

     Section 9. Controller. The Board of Directors may select a Controller who
shall keep or cause to be kept in the books of the Company provided for that
purpose a true account of all transactions and of the assets and liabilities of
the Company. The Controller shall prepare and submit to the Chief Financial
Officer or, in the absence of the

                                       11
<PAGE>

Chief Financial Officer to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, such
financial statements and schedules as may be required to keep the Chief
Financial Officer and the Chairman of the Board of Directors currently informed
of the operations and financial condition of the Company, and perform such other
duties as may be assigned by the Chief Financial Officer or the Chairman of the
Board.

     In the absence of the Controller, an Assistant Controller is authorized to
assume the duties herein imposed upon the Controller.

     Section 10. Chief of Internal Audits. The Board of Directors may select a
Chief of Internal Audits, who shall cause to be performed, and have general
supervision over, auditing activities of the financial transactions of the
Company, including the coordination of such auditing activities with the
independent accountants of the Company and who shall perform such other duties
as may be assigned to him from time to time. The Chief of Internal Audits shall
report to the Chief Financial Officer or, in the absence of the Chief Financial
Officer, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. From time to time at the
request of the Audit Committee, the Chief of Internal Audits shall inform that
Committee of the auditing activities of the Company.

     Section 11. Assistant Vice Presidents. The Company may have assistant vice
presidents who shall be appointed by a committee whose membership shall include
one or more executive officers of the Company (the "Committee"). Each such
assistant vice president shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as
may be assigned from time to time by the Committee, the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, the President or any Vice President, and which are not inconsistent
with the powers and duties granted and assigned by these By-Laws or the Board of
Directors. Assistant vice presidents appointed by the Committee shall be subject
to removal at any time, with or without cause, by the Committee. Annually the
Committee shall report to the Board of Directors who it has appointed to serve
as assistant vice presidents and their respective responsibilities.

                                   ARTICLE VI

RESIGNATIONS: FILLING OF VACANCIES:

     Section 1. Resignations. Any director, member of a committee, or officer
may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing and shall take
effect at the time specified therein, and, if no time be specified, at the time
of its receipt by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Secretary. The
acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.

     Section 2. Filling of Vacancies. If the office of any director becomes
vacant, the directors in office, although less than a quorum, or, if the number
of directors is

                                       12
<PAGE>

increased, the directors in office, may elect any qualified person to fill
such vacancy. In the case of a vacancy in the office of a director caused by an
increase in the number of directors, the person so elected shall hold office
until the next annual meeting of shareholders, or until his successor shall be
elected and qualified. In the case of a vacancy in the office of a director
resulting otherwise than from an increase in the number of directors, the person
so elected to fill such vacancy shall hold office for the unexpired term of the
director whose office became vacant. If the office of any officer becomes
vacant, the Chairman of the Board of Directors may appoint any qualified person
to fill such vacancy temporarily until the Board of Directors elects any
qualified person for the unexpired portion of the term. Such person shall hold
office for the unexpired term and until the officer's successor shall be duly
elected and qualified or until the officer's earlier resignation or removal.

                                  ARTICLE VII

INDEMNIFICATION:

     Section 1. Indemnification of Directors and Officers; Insurance. The
Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be
made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding,
whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action
by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that he is or was a
director, officer, employee, or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at
the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against
expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in
settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such
action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he
reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Company,
and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause
to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or
proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo
contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that
the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably
believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Company, and with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe
that his conduct was unlawful.

     The Company shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is
threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or
suit by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by
reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of
the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company, as a director,
officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys'

                                       13


<PAGE>

fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense
or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a
manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of
the Company and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any
claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be
liable to the Company unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery
or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon
application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the
circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to
indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court
shall deem proper.

     To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company
has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or
proceeding referred to in the first two paragraphs of this Section or in defense
of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses
(including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in
connection therewith.

     Any indemnification under the first two paragraphs of this Section (unless
ordered by a court) shall be made by the Company only as authorized in the
specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director,
officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because the applicable
standard of conduct set forth in the first two paragraphs of this Section has
been met. Such determination shall be made (1) by the Board of Directors by a
majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such
action, suit or proceedings, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even
if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent
legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the shareholders.

     Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or
proceeding may be paid by the Company in advance of the final disposition of
such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf
of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount unless it shall
ultimately be determined that he is entitled to be indemnified by the Company as
authorized by this Section.

     The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted
pursuant to this Section shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to
which those indemnified or those who receive advances may be entitled under any
By-Law, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise,
both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity
while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to
be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the
heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.

     The Company shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf
of any person who is or

                                       14
<PAGE>

was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was
serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent
of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise
against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such
capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would
have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of
this Section.

     The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted
pursuant to, this section shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or
ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer,
employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and
administrators of such a person.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

CAPITAL STOCK:

     Section 1. Form and Execution of Certificates. The certificates of shares
of the capital stock of the Company shall be in such form as shall be approved
by the Board of Directors. The certificates shall be signed by the Chairman of
the Board of Directors or the President, or a Vice President, and by the
Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer.
Each certificate of stock shall certify the number of shares owned by the
shareholder in the Company.

     A facsimile of the seal of the Company may be used in connection with the
certificates of stock of the Company, and facsimile signatures of the officers
named in this Section may be used in connection with said certificates. In the
event any officer whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate
shall cease to be such officer before the certificate is issued, the certificate
may be issued with the same effect as if such person was an officer at the date
of issue.

     Section 2. Record Ownerships. All certificates shall be numbered
appropriately and the names of the owners, the number of shares and the date of
issue shall be entered in the books of the Company. The Company shall be
entitled to treat the holder of record of any share of stock as the holder in
fact thereof and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or
other claim to or interest in any share on the part of any other person, whether
or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by the
laws of Delaware.

     Section 3. Transfer of Shares. Upon surrender to the Company or to a
transfer agent of the Company of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or
accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to
transfer, it shall be the duty of the Company, if it is satisfied that all
provisions of law regarding transfers of shares have been duly complied with, to
issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old
certificate and record the transaction upon its books.

                                       15

<PAGE>

     Section 4. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates. Any person
claiming a stock certificate in lieu of one lost, stolen or destroyed shall give
the Company an affidavit as to such person's ownership of the certificate and of
the facts which go to prove that it was lost, stolen or destroyed. The person
shall also, if required by the Board of Directors, give the Company a bond,
sufficient to indemnify the Company against any claims that may be made against
it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate
or the issuance of such new certificate. Any Vice President or the Secretary or
any Assistant Secretary of the Company is authorized to issue such duplicate
certificates or to authorize any of the transfer agents and registrars to issue
and register such duplicate certificates.

     Section 5. Regulations. The Board of Directors from time to time may make
such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue,
transfer and registration of shares.

     Section 6. Transfer Agent and Registrar. The Board of Directors may appoint
such transfer agents and registrars of transfers as may be deemed necessary, and
may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of either or both.

                                   ARTICLE IX

SEAL:

     Section 1. Seal. The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal
containing the name of the Company, the year of its creation, and the words,
"CORPORATE SEAL, DELAWARE," or other appropriate words. The Secretary shall have
custody of the seal.

                                   ARTICLE X

FISCAL YEAR:

     Section 1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Company shall be the
calendar year.

                                   ARTICLE XI

AMENDMENTS:

     Section 1. Directors may Amend By-Laws. The Board of Directors shall have
the power to make, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Company at any regular or
special meeting of the Board of Directors.

     Section 2. By-Laws Subject to Amendment by Shareholders. All By-Laws shall
be subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal by the shareholders entitled to
vote at any annual meeting or at any special meeting.

                                       16

<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE XII

EMERGENCY BY-LAWS:

     Section 1. Emergency By-Laws. This Article XII shall be operative during
any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States or on a locality in
which the Company conducts its business or customarily holds meetings of its
Board of Directors or its stockholders, or during any nuclear or atomic disaster
or during the existence of any catastrophe or other similar emergency condition,
as a result of which a quorum of the Board of Directors or the Executive
Committee thereof cannot be readily convened (an "emergency"), notwithstanding
any different or conflicting provision in the preceding Articles of these
By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. To the extent not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Article, the By-Laws provided in the
preceding Articles and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the
Company shall remain in effect during such emergency, and upon termination of
such emergency, the provisions of this Article XII shall cease to be operative.

     Section 2. Meetings. During any emergency, a meeting of the Board of
Directors, or any committee thereof, may be called by any officer or director of
the Company. Notice of the time and place of the meeting shall be given by any
available means of communication by the person calling the meeting to such of
the directors and/or Designated Officers, as defined in Section 3 hereof, as it
may be feasible to reach. Such notice shall be given at such time in advance of
the meeting as, in the judgment of the person calling the meeting, circumstances
permit.

     Section 3. Quorum. At any meeting of the Board of Directors, or any
committee thereof, called in accordance with Section 2 of this Article XII, the
presence or participation of two directors, one director and a Designated
Officer or two Designated Officers shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business.

     The Board of Directors or the committees thereof, as the case may be,
shall, from time to time but in any event prior to such time or times as an
emergency may have occurred, designate the officers of the Company in a numbered
list (the "Designated Officers") who shall be deemed, in the order in which they
appear on such list, directors of the Company for purposes of obtaining a quorum
during an emergency, if a quorum of directors cannot otherwise be obtained.

     Section 4. By-Laws. At any meeting called in accordance with Section 2 of
this Article XII, the Board of Directors or the committees thereof, as the case
may be, may modify, amend or add to the provisions of this Article XII so as to
make any provision that may be practical or necessary for the circumstances of
the emergency.

                                       17
<PAGE>

     Section 5. Liability. No officer, director or employee of the Company
acting in accordance with the provisions of this Article XII shall be liable
except for willful misconduct.

     Section 6. Repeal or Change. The provisions of this Article XII shall be
subject to repeal or change by further action of the Board of Directors or by
action of the shareholders, but no such repeal or change shall modify the
provisions of Section 5 of this Article XII with regard to action taken prior to
the time of such repeal or change.



                                       18

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>x10-8.txt
<DESCRIPTION>1989 RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD PLAN, AS AMENDED 4-18-01
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.8

                             THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

                        1989 RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD PLAN
                       (As Amended through April 18, 2001)


Section 1.      Purpose

     The  purpose  of the 1989  Restricted  Stock  Award  Plan of The  Coca-Cola
Company (the "Plan") is to advance the  interest of The  Coca-Cola  Company (the
"Company")  and its  Related  Companies  (as  defined in  Section 4 hereof),  by
encouraging and enabling the acquisition of a financial  interest in the Company
by officers  and other key  employees  through  grants of  restricted  shares of
Company Common Stock (the "Awards", or singly, an "Award"). The Plan is intended
to aid the Company and its  Related  Companies  in  retaining  officers  and key
employees,  to stimulate the efforts of such  employees and to strengthen  their
desire to remain in the employ of the  Company  and its  Related  Companies.  In
addition,  the Plan may also aid in  attracting  officers and key  employees who
will become  eligible to  participate  in the Plan after a reasonable  period of
employment by the Company or its Related Companies.

Section 2.      Administration

     The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the  "Committee")  appointed
by the Board of  Directors of the Company (the  "Board") or in  accordance  with
Section 7, Article III of the By-Laws of the Company (as amended through October
17,  1996) from among its members and shall be  comprised of not less than three
(3)  members of the Board.  Unless and until its members  are not  qualified  to
serve on the Committee  pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Compensation
Committee  shall be members of the Board who are not eligible to  participate in
the Plan for at least one year  prior to the time  they  become  members  of the
Committee.  Eligibility  requirements  for members of the Committee shall comply
with Rule 16b-3 promulgated  pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act") or any successor rule or regulation.  The Committee
shall  determine  the officers and key  employees of the Company and its Related
Companies (including  officers,  whether or not they are directors) to whom, and
the time or times at which,  Awards will be granted,  the number of shares to be
awarded, the time or times within which the Awards may be subject to forfeiture,
and all other  conditions of the Award. The provisions of the Awards need not be
the same with respect to each recipient.

     The  Committee is  authorized,  subject to the  provisions  of the Plan, to
establish such rules and  regulations as it deems necessary or advisable for the
proper  administration  of the Plan and to take such other action in  connection
with or in relation to the Plan as it deems necessary or advisable.  Each action
made or taken pursuant to the Plan, including interpretation of the Plan and the
Awards granted hereunder by the Committee, shall be

<PAGE>

final and  conclusive  for all purposes  and upon all  persons,  including,
without limitation,  the Company and its Related Companies,  the Committee,  the
Board, the Officers and the affected employees of the Company and/or its Related
Companies and their respective successors in interest.

Section 3.      Stock

     The stock to be issued under the Plan pursuant to Awards shall be shares of
Common Stock,  $.25 par value, of the Company (the "Stock").  The Stock shall be
made available  from treasury or authorized and unissued  shares of Common Stock
of the Company.  The total number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant
to  Awards  under the Plan,  including  those  already  issued,  may not  exceed
40,000,000  shares  (subject to adjustment in accordance  with Section 8), which
number  represents  the  number of  shares  originally  authorized  in the Plan,
adjusted for 2-for-1 stock splits which occurred on May 1, 1990, May 1, 1992 and
May 1, 1996, less the number of shares already issued pursuant to the Plan as of
October 1, 1996.  Shares of Stock  previously  granted  pursuant to Awards,  but
which are forfeited  pursuant to Section 5, below, shall be available for future
Awards.

Section 4.      Eligibility

     Awards may be granted to officers and key  employees of the Company and its
Related  Companies who have been employed by the Company or a Related  [Company]
(but only if the Related  Company is one in which the Company  owns on the grant
date,  directly  or  indirectly,  either (i) 50% or more of the voting  stock or
capital where such entity is not publicly held, or (ii) an interest which causes
the Related  Company's  financial  results to be consolidated with the Company's
financial results for financial  reporting  purposes) for a reasonable period of
time  determined by the  Committee.  The term "Related  Company"  shall mean any
corporation or other business  organization in which the Company owns,  directly
or  indirectly,  20  percent  or more of the  voting  stock  or  capital  at the
applicable  time. No employee shall acquire pursuant to Awards granted under the
Plan more than twenty (20)  percent of the  aggregate  number of shares of Stock
issuable pursuant to Awards under the Plan.

Section 5.      Awards

     Except as otherwise  specifically provided in the grant of an Award, Awards
shall be granted  solely for  services  rendered  to the  Company or any Related
Company by the  employee  prior to the date of the grant and shall be subject to
the following terms and conditions:

     (a) The Stock  subject to an Award shall be forfeited to the Company if the
employment of the employee by the Company or Related Company  terminates for any
reason  (including,  but not limited to,  termination  by the  Company,  with or
without cause) other than death, "Retirement",  as hereinafter defined, provided
that such Retirement occurs at least five (5) years from the date of grant of an
Award  and also  provided  that the  employee  has  attained  the age of 62,  or
disability  (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3)

                                       2

<PAGE>

of the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,  as amended),  prior to a "Change in
Control" of the Company as hereinafter  defined.  "Retirement",  as used herein,
shall mean an  employee's  voluntarily  leaving  the employ of the  Company or a
Related  Company on a date which is on or after the earliest  date on which such
employee would be eligible for an immediately  payable  benefit  pursuant to (i)
for those employees  eligible for  participation  in the Company's  Supplemental
Retirement  Plan, the terms of that Plan and (ii) for all other  employees,  the
terms of the Employees  Retirement Plan (the "ERP") assuming such employees were
eligible to participate in the ERP.

     (b) If at any time the  recipient  Retires on a date which is at least five
(5)  years  from the date of grant of an Award and on or after the date on which
the employee has  attained  the age of 62, dies or becomes  disabled,  or in the
event of a "Change in Control" of the Company, as hereinafter defined,  prior to
such Retirement, death or disability, such recipient shall be entitled to retain
the number of shares  subject to the Award.  A "Change in Control"  shall mean a
change in control of a nature  that would be required to be reported in response
to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation  14A  promulgated  under the Exchange
Act as in effect on November  15, 1988,  provided  that such a change in control
shall be deemed to have  occurred at such time as (i) any "person" (as that term
is used in Sections  13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange  Act), is or becomes the
beneficial  owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange  Act) directly or
indirectly,  of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power
for election of directors of the then  outstanding  securities of the Company or
any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two consecutive years or
less,  individuals who at the beginning of such period  constituted the Board of
Directors  of the  Company  cease,  for any  reason,  to  constitute  at least a
majority  of the Board of  Directors,  unless the  election  or  nomination  for
election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least  two-thirds  of
the  directors  then still in office who were  directors at the beginning of the
period;   (iii)  the   shareholders   of  the  Company  approve  any  merger  or
consolidation as a result of which the Common Stock shall be changed,  converted
or exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company)
or any  liquidation  of the Company or any sale or other  disposition  of 50% or
more of the assets or earning power of the Company;  or (iv) the shareholders of
the Company approve any merger or  consolidation to which the Company is a party
as a  result  of  which  the  persons  who  were  shareholders  of  the  Company
immediately  prior to the effective  date of the merger or  consolidation  shall
have  beneficial  ownership  of less than 50% of the  combined  voting power for
election of directors of the surviving  corporation following the effective date
of such merger or consolidation;  provided,  however,  that no Change in Control
shall be deemed to have  occurred  if, prior to such time as a Change in Control
would  otherwise be deemed to have occurred,  the Board of Directors  determines
otherwise.

     (c) Awards may contain such other  provisions,  not  inconsistent  with the
provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine  appropriate  from time
to time.

                                       3
<PAGE>

        (d)     Performance-Based Awards.

     1. The Restricted Stock  Subcommittee of the Board which shall be comprised
of two or more outside  directors  meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  "Code")(the  "Subcommittee")
may select from time to time,  in its  discretion,  executive  officers,  senior
vice-presidents  and other key  executives  of the Company to receive  awards of
restricted stock under the Plan, in such amounts as the Subcommittee may, in its
discretion,  determine  (subject to any limitations  provided in the Plan),  the
release of which will be conditioned upon the attainment of certain  performance
targets  ("Performance-Based  Awards").  With respect to individuals residing in
countries  other than in the  United  States,  the  Subcommittee  may  authorize
alternatives  that  deliver  substantially  the same value,  including,  but not
limited to, promises of future  restricted  stock awards provided that the grant
and  subsequent  release is contingent  upon  attainment of certain  performance
targets under this section.

     2.  At the  time  of each  grant,  the  Subcommittee  shall  determine  the
performance  targets and the Measurement  Period (as defined below) that will be
applied with respect to such grant.  Grants of  Performance-Based  Awards may be
made, and the performance  targets applicable to such  Performance-Based  Awards
may be defined and  determined,  by the  Subcommittee  no later than ninety days
after the  commencement of the  Measurement  Period.  The  performance  criteria
applicable  to  Performance-Based  Awards  will be one or more of the  following
criteria:

                (i)     average annual growth in earnings per share;
                (ii)    increase in share-owner value;
                (iii)   earnings per share;
                (iv)    net income;
                (v)     return on assets;
                (vi)    return on share-owners' equity;
                (vii)   increase in cash flow;
                (viii)  operating profit or operating margins;
                (ix)    revenue growth of the Company;
                (x)     operating expenses; and
                (xi)    quality as determined by the Company's Quality Index.

The  Measurement  Period  will be a  period  of  years,  determined  by the
Subcommittee in its discretion, commencing on January 1 of the first year of the
Measurement Period and ending on December 31 of the last year of the Measurement
Period. The Measurement Period will be subject to adjustment as the Subcommittee
may provide in the terms of each award.

                                       4
<PAGE>


     3. Except as otherwise  provided in the terms of the award,  shares awarded
in the form of  Performance-Based  Awards  shall be eligible  for  release  (the
"Release  Date") on March 1 next  following the  completion  of the  Measurement
Period.

     4. Shares awarded in the form of Performance-Based  Awards will be released
only if the  Controller  of the Company and the  Subcommittee  certify  that the
performance targets have been achieved during the Measurement Period.

     5.  Performance-Based  Awards  granted  pursuant to this  Section  5(d) are
intended to qualify as  performance-based  compensation  under Section 162(m) of
the Code and shall be administered and construed accordingly.

Section 6.      Nontransferability of Awards

     Shares of Stock subject to Awards shall not be  transferable  and shall not
be sold, exchanged,  transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of
at any time  prior to the  first to occur of  Retirement  on a date  which is at
least five (5) years from the date of grant of an Award and on or after the date
on which the employee has  attained  the age of 62, death or  disability  of the
recipient of an Award or a Change in Control.

Section 7.      Rights as a Stockholder

     An employee who receives an Award shall have rights as a  stockholder  with
respect to Stock  covered by such  Award to receive  dividends  in cash or other
property or other  distributions  or rights in respect to such Stock and to vote
such Stock as the record owner thereof.

Section 8.      Adjustment in the Number of Shares Awarded

     In the event there is any change in the Stock  through the  declaration  of
stock dividends,  through stock splits or through  recapitalization or merger or
consolidation or combination of shares or otherwise,  the Committee or the Board
shall make such adjustment,  if any, as it may deem appropriate in the number of
shares of Stock thereafter available for Awards.

Section 9.      Taxes

     (a) If any employee properly elects, within thirty (30) days of the date on
which an Award is granted,  to include in gross  income for  federal  income tax
purposes an amount  equal to the fair market  value (on the date of grant of the
Award) of the Stock subject to the Award,  such employee shall make arrangements
satisfactory  to the  Committee to pay to the Company in the year of such Award,
any federal,  state or local taxes  required to be withheld with respect to such
shares.  If such employee  shall fail to make such tax payments as are required,
the Company and its Related  Companies  shall,  to the extent  permitted by law,
have the right to  deduct  from any  payment  of any kind  otherwise  due to the
employee  any  federal,  state or local taxes of any kind  required by law to be
withheld with respect to the Stock subject to such Award.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     (b) Each employee who does not make the election described in paragraph (a)
of this  Section  shall,  no later  than the date as of which  the  restrictions
referred to in Section 5 and such other restrictions as may have been imposed as
a condition of the Award, shall lapse, pay to the Company,  or make arrangements
satisfactory to the Committee  regarding payment of any federal,  state or local
taxes of any kind  required  by law to be  withheld  with  respect  to the Stock
subject to such Award,  and the Company and its Related  Companies shall, to the
extent  permitted by law,  have the right to deduct from any payment of any kind
otherwise  due to the employee any  federal,  state,  or local taxes of any kind
required by law to be withheld with respect to the Stock subject to such Award.

     (c) The  Committee  may  specify  when it grants an Award that the Award is
subject to mandatory  share  withholding  for  satisfaction  of tax  withholding
obligations by employees.  For all other Awards, whether granted before or after
this paragraph 9(c) was added to this Plan,  tax  withholding  obligations of an
employee may be satisfied by share withholding,  if permitted by applicable law,
at the written  election of the employee prior to the date the  restrictions  on
the Award lapse.  The shares  withheld will be valued at the average of the high
and low  market  prices  at  which a share  of  Stock  was  sold on the date the
restrictions lapse (or, if such date is not a trading day, then the next trading
day  thereafter),   as  reported  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange--Composite
Transactions listing.

Section 10.     Restrictive Legend and Stock Power

     Each  certificate   evidencing  Stock  subject  to  Awards  shall  bear  an
appropriate   legend  referring  to  the  terms,   conditions  and  restrictions
applicable to such award.  Any attempt to dispose of Stock in  contravention  of
such terms, conditions, and restrictions shall be ineffective. The Committee may
adopt rules which provide that the  certificates  evidencing  such shares may be
held in custody by a bank or other  institution,  or that the Company may itself
hold such shares in custody until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed and
may  require,  as a  condition  of any  Award,  that the  recipient  shall  have
delivered a stock power  endorsed in blank relating to the Stock covered by such
Award.

Section 11.     Amendments, Modifications and Termination of Plan

     The Board or the Committee may terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, may
suspend the Plan, in whole or in part from time to time,  and may amend the Plan
from time to time,  including  the adoption of  amendments  deemed  necessary or
desirable to qualify the Awards under the laws of various states  (including tax
laws) and under rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission  with  respect to  employees  who are  subject to the  provisions  of
Section 16 of the  Exchange  Act, or to correct any defect or supply an omission
or reconcile any  inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award granted  thereunder,
without the  approval of the stock  holders of the Company;  provided,  however,
that no action shall be taken  without the approval of the  stockholders  of the
Company which may increase the number of shares of Stock available for Awards or
withdraw  administration from the Committee, or permit any person while a member
of the  Committee  to be  eligible  to receive an Award.  Without  limiting  the
foregoing,  the  Board

                                       6
<PAGE>

of  Directors  or  the   Committee  may  make   amendments   applicable  or
inapplicable  only to participants who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange
Act. No amendment or termination or modification of the Plan shall in any manner
affect Awards  therefore  granted without the consent of the employee unless the
Committee has made a  determination  that an amendment or modification is in the
best interest of all persons to whom Awards have theretofore  been granted.  The
Board or the Committee may modify or remove restrictions contained in Sections 5
and 6 on an Award or the Awards as a whole  which have been  previously  granted
upon a  determination  that such action is in the best  interest of the Company.
The Plan shall terminate when (a) all Awards authorized under the Plan have been
granted and (b) all shares of Stock  subject to Awards  under the Plan have been
issued and are no longer  subject to  forfeiture  under the terms hereof  unless
earlier terminated by the Board or the Committee.

Section 12.     Governing Law

     The Plan and all  determinations  made and actions taken  pursuant  thereto
shall  be  governed  by the  laws of the  State  of  Georgia  and  construed  in
accordance therewith.



                                      7



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.21.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>x10-21a.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - DEVAL L. PATRICK
<TEXT>
                                                              EXHIBIT 10.21.1

                             EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated as of February 21, 2001, by and between Deval L. Patrick
(the "Executive"), and The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company").

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into this agreement setting forth the
terms and conditions of the employment relationship of the Executive with the
Company;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements
set forth below, the parties hereby agree as follows:

     1. EMPLOYMENT. The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the
Executive hereby accepts such employment, on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth.

     2. EMPLOYMENT PERIOD. The period during which the Executive is employed by
the Company hereunder (the "Employment Period") shall commence on April 2, 2001
(the "Effective Date") and shall end on the fifth anniversary thereof; provided,
however, that commencing on the fourth anniversary of the Effective Date and on
each subsequent anniversary of the Effective Date (each such anniversary, a
"Renewal Date"), the Employment Period shall automatically be extended for one
additional year unless, not later than the date which is four months prior to
such Renewal Date, the Company or the Executive shall have given notice not to
extend the Employment Period.

   3. POSITION AND DUTIES; PLACE OF PERFORMANCE. (a) During the Employment
Period, the Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company, subject to election by the Board of Directors of the
Company (the "Board"). The Executive shall report to the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the "Chief Executive Officer").
During the Employment Period, the Executive shall have those powers and duties
consistent with his positions and assigned by the Chief Executive Officer,
including but not limited to managing the Company's worldwide legal affairs
(including law-related strategic and policy issues); organizing the hiring,
development, promotion and disposition of worldwide legal staff; and hiring and
firing outside counsel. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be a
member of the Company's Executive Committee. The Executive agrees to devote
substantially all of his working time to the performance of his duties for the
Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, it shall not be a violation of
this Agreement for the Executive to




<PAGE>


serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees; provided, however,
that his service on corporate boards or committees shall be subject to the
consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; and
provided further, however, that the Company shall be deemed to have given such
consent with respect to those boards and committees on which the Executive
serves as of the Effective Date.

          (b) The principal place of employment of the Executive shall be at the
Company's principal executive offices in Atlanta, Georgia.

     4. COMPENSATION AND RELATED MATTERS.

     (a) BASE SALARY; MAKE-WHOLE PAYMENT; INCENTIVES. The Executive shall be
entitled to the following base salary, make-whole payment and incentives:

          (i) BASE SALARY. As of the Effective Date, as compensation for the
     performance by the Executive of his duties hereunder, the Company shall pay
     the Executive a base salary at an annual rate of $475,000 (the base salary,
     at the rate in effect from time to time, is hereinafter referred to as the
     "Base Salary"). The Base Salary shall be payable in accordance with the
     Company's normal payroll practice and may be increased from time to time at
     the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Base Salary
     shall not be subject to reduction by the Company at any time during the
     Employment Period.

          (ii) MAKE-WHOLE PAYMENT. The Company shall pay to the Executive a
     make-whole payment of $1,000,000, one-half of which shall be paid on the
     Effective Date and the remainder of which shall be paid on the first
     anniversary of the Effective Date.

          (iii) ANNUAL INCENTIVE. So long as the Executive is employed by the
     Company, he shall be eligible to receive annual cash incentive awards (the
     "Annual Incentive") pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of
     the Company's Annual Performance Incentive Plan or Executive Performance
     Incentive Plan (or any successor plan). The Executive's Annual Incentive in
     respect of 2001 shall in no event be less than 80% of his target bonus for
     such year. The Executive's Annual Incentive in respect of 2001 and for each
     year after 2001 shall in no event be targeted at a percentage less than the


                                        2

<PAGE>


     target percentage set for other similarly situated executive officers of
     the Company (the "Peer Executives").

          (iv) LONG-TERM INCENTIVE. So long as the Executive is employed by the
     Company, he shall be eligible to receive long-term cash incentive awards
     (the "Long-Term Incentive") pursuant to and subject to the terms and
     conditions of the Company's Long Term Performance Incentive Plan (or any
     successor plan). The target percentage for the Executive's Long-Term
     Incentive for each performance period during the Employment Period shall in
     no event be less than the target percentage set for the Peer Executives.

     (b) EQUITY GRANTS.

          (i) STOCK OPTIONS. The Chief Executive Officer shall recommend to the
     Stock Option Subcommittee of the Board at its first meeting following the
     Effective Date that the Company grant to the Executive a stock option (the
     "Option"), pursuant to the Company's 1999 Stock Option Plan, to purchase a
     number of shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.25 per share
     ("Common Stock") having a Black-Scholes value equal to the Black-Scholes
     value of the options to acquire shares of the Executive's employer (the
     "Current Employer") held by the Executive on the date hereof. The
     Black-Scholes value of the Option shall be calculated as of the Effective
     Date using the same methodology and assumptions utilized by the Company in
     valuing annual grants to all employees in 2000. The Black-Scholes value of
     the options to acquire shares of the Current Employer held by the Executive
     on the date hereof shall be calculated as of the Effective Date using the
     same methodology (including the methodology used to determine assumptions)
     utilized by the Company in valuing annual grants to all employees in 2000.
     Any Black-Scholes calculation made pursuant to this Agreement shall be
     delivered to the Executive reasonably in advance of the date of grant of
     the Option. The Option grant shall be reflected in an option agreement
     which, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, shall include the
     terms of the Company's standard form of option agreement as in effect on
     the date of grant of the Option.

          (ii) RESTRICTED STOCK. The Chief Executive Officer shall recommend to
     the Restricted Stock Subcommittee of the Board

                                        3

<PAGE>



     at its first meeting following the Effective Date that the Company
     grant to the Executive, pursuant to the Company's 1989 Restricted Stock
     Award Plan, a number of shares of Common Stock (the "Restricted Stock")
     having a fair market value on the Effective Date equal to the sum of (A)
     $2,000,000 and (B) the fair market value on the Effective Date of the
     number of restricted shares of Current Employer common stock held by the
     Executive on the date hereof. The Restricted Stock shall be reflected in a
     restricted stock agreement which, except as expressly provided in this
     Agreement, shall include the terms of the Company's standard form of
     restricted stock agreement as in effect on the date of grant of the
     Restricted Stock; provided, however, that the Restricted Stock shall be
     released from restriction on the earlier of (1) the third anniversary of
     the Effective Date or (2) certain terminations of employment, as set forth
     in Section 6 hereof.

          (iii) FUTURE EQUITY GRANTS. At such time(s) during each year of the
     Employment Period that the Compensation Committee or a subcommittee thereof
     approves annual stock option grants and/or other equity grants to senior
     executives of the Company, and provided that the Executive is then still
     employed by the Company, the Company shall grant to the Executive equity
     awards according to the terms of the applicable plans, using ranges set for
     the Peer Executives and based upon the Executive's performance. Such future
     equity grants, in combination with the Option and the Restricted Stock,
     shall be referred to herein as the "Equity Awards".

     (c) EXPENSES. During the Employment Period, the Company shall reimburse the
Executive for all reasonable business expenses in accordance with applicable
policies and procedures then in force. The Company acknowledges that the
Executive's principal residence is located in Milton, MA and that the Executive
intends to commute on a regular basis from such principal residence to the
Company's headquarters in Atlanta, GA. Accordingly, for at least twelve months
following the Effective Date, the Company shall reimburse the Executive, on an
after-tax basis, for all travel costs and expenses incurred by the Executive in
connection with commuting from his principal residence to the Company's
principal executive offices. In addition, the Company shall provide for
relocating his home, family and personal belongings (including a reasonable
number of trips for the Executive's spouse) in the event that the Executive
determines to relocate to the vicinity of the Company's principal executive
offices, in accordance with the Company's current relocation policy.

                                        4


<PAGE>



     (d) PENSION CREDIT. So long as the Executive has remained in the employ of
the Company until the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date, he shall be
eligible for pension benefits equal to the amount that he would have earned
under the Company's Employee Retirement Plan and Supplemental Retirement Plan
(and any successor plans), if the Executive's service had been determined as if
he had been in the employ of the Company for a number of years equal to the sum
of (i) his actual number of years of service with the Company and (ii) ten (such
additional credit, the "Pension Credit"). Such Pension Credit shall be reduced
by the amounts actually paid under such plans in accordance with their terms.
The Company reserves the right to purchase annuities or such other vehicles as
it may determine to fund the Pension Credit and/or to pay to the Executive, at
the time of the Executive's retirement, death or Disability, a lump sum payment
equal to the present value of the Pension Credit, determined using the interest
rate prescribed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for valuing
immediate annuities for plans terminating in the month in which the Executive's
retirement, death or Disability occurs.

     (e) VACATION AND OTHER ABSENCES. The Executive shall be entitled to paid
vacation and other paid absences, whether for holidays, illness, personal time
or any similar purposes during the Employment Period, in accordance with
policies applicable generally to senior executives of the Company.
Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the Executive shall be entitled
to a minimum of four weeks of paid vacation per year during the Employment
Period.

     (f) OTHER BENEFITS. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be
eligible to participate in such other employee benefit programs and perquisite
arrangements as are applicable generally to employees and/or made available to
senior executives of the Company (the "Benefit Plans"), in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such Benefit Plans and on a basis no less favorable than
the Peer Executives, but with all waiting periods waived to the maximum extent
permitted by such Benefit Plans.

     5. TERMINATION. The Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated as
follows:

          (a) DEATH. The Executive's employment shall terminate upon his death,
     in which event the date of his death shall be the Date of Termination.

          (b) DISABILITY. If, as a result of the Executive's incapacity due to
     Disability (as defined in the Company's Long Term Disability Plan), the
     Company shall have given the Executive a Notice of Termination for
     Disability, and, within

                                        5


<PAGE>


     thirty days after such Notice of Termination is given, the Executive
     shall not have returned to the full-time performance of the Executive's
     duties, the Company may terminate the Executive's services hereunder, in
     which event the Date of Termination shall be thirty days after Notice of
     Termination is given.

          (c) CAUSE. The Company may terminate the Executive's employment
     hereunder for Cause. For purposes of this subsection, "Cause" shall mean
     (i) the Executive's material breach of this Agreement, (ii) the Executive's
     gross negligence in the performance or non-performance of any of his
     material duties or responsibilities hereunder, (iii) the Executive's
     dishonesty, fraud or willful misconduct with respect to, or disparagement
     of, the business or affairs of the Company, (iv) the Executive's conviction
     of a felony, (v) the Executive's being absent from work for five
     consecutive days for any reason other than vacation, approved leave of
     absence (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld) or disability or
     illness pursuant to Company policy or law, which, in the case of clauses
     (i), (ii), (iii) and (v), is demonstrably and materially injurious to the
     Company or its subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise. No act or failure to
     act by the Executive shall be considered Cause unless the Company has given
     detailed written notice thereof to the Executive and, where remedial action
     is feasible, he has failed to remedy the act or omission within twenty
     business days after receiving such notice.

          (d) GOOD REASON. The Executive may terminate his employment hereunder
     for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean
     any material breach of this Agreement, the occurrence of which is not
     remedied by the Company within five business days following receipt of the
     Executive's Notice of Termination, including but not limited to the failure
     by the Board to elect the Executive to the positions of Executive Vice
     President and General Counsel at the first meeting of the Board held after
     the Effective Date, but in no event later than April 18, 2001. In the event
     of a termination for Good Reason, the Date of Termination shall be the date
     specified in the Notice of Termination, which shall be not less than twenty
     business days after the Notice of Termination is delivered.

          (e) OTHER TERMINATIONS. The Company may terminate the Executive's
     employment hereunder other than for Cause or Disability, and the Executive
     may terminate his employment other than for Good Reason. If the Executive's
     employment is terminated pursuant to this Section 5(e), the date on which a
     Notice of Termination is given or any later date (within 30 days) set forth
     in such Notice of Termination shall be the Date of Termination.

                                        6


<PAGE>



          (f) NOTICE OF TERMINATION. Any termination of the Executive's
     employment hereunder by the Company or by the Executive (other than
     termination pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof) shall be communicated by
     written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with
     Section 15 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of
     Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific
     termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in
     reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis
     for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so
     indicated.

          6. COMPENSATION UPON TERMINATION OR DURING DISABILITY.

          (a) DISABILITY PERIOD. During any portion of the Employment Period
     during which the Executive fails to perform his duties hereunder as a
     result of incapacity due to short term disability (as defined in the
     applicable Company plan) prior to the commencement of Disability (the
     "Disability Period"), the Executive shall continue to (i) receive his full
     Base Salary, (ii) be eligible to receive the Annual Incentive and (iii)
     participate in the Benefit Plans. Payments made to the Executive during the
     Disability Period shall be reduced by the sum of the amounts, if any,
     payable to the Executive at or prior to the time of any such payment under
     disability benefit plans of the Company or under the Social Security
     disability insurance program, to the extent such amounts were not
     previously applied to reduce any such payment.

          (b) DEATH; DISABILITY. If the Executive's employment hereunder is
     terminated as a result of death or disability, then:

               (i) the Company shall pay the Executive (or the Executive's
          estate or designated beneficiary, as applicable) as soon as
          practicable after the Date of Termination (A) any Base Salary and
          reimbursable expenses, in each case accrued and owing the Executive
          hereunder as of the Date of Termination and any incentive payments in
          accordance with the relevant plans, (B) all benefits due and owing to
          or in respect of the Executive under all Benefit Plans, in accordance
          with the terms of such Benefit Plans and (C) the amounts described in
          Section 4(a)(ii), to the extent not theretofore paid (the benefits
          described in this clause (i) being hereinafter referred to
          collectively as the "Accrued Benefits");

               (ii) the Company shall continue to pay to the Executive or his
          estate or designated beneficiary, for a period of two years

                                        7


<PAGE>



          following the Date of Termination, his Base Salary, offset by any
          payments made to or in respect of the Executive under the Company's
          Survivor's Benefit Program or Long Term Disability Plan;

               (iii) the Option, Restricted Stock, and other Equity Awards shall
          become vested or released from restriction, as applicable (and, where
          relevant, remain exercisable) in accordance with the terms of the
          applicable plans and individual agreements; and

               (iv) the Executive shall be provided with the Pension Credit.

          (c) CAUSE OR BY EXECUTIVE OTHER THAN FOR GOOD REASON. If the
     Executive's employment hereunder is terminated by the Company for Cause or
     by the Executive other than for Good Reason, then:

               (i) the Company shall pay the Executive the Accrued Benefits;

               (ii) the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (and
          shall remain exercisable in accordance with the applicable plans and
          individual agreements); and

               (iii) if the Date of Termination occurs prior to the third
          anniversary of the Executive's election as an officer of the Company,
          the Company shall pay to the Executive, as soon as practicable but no
          later than 30 days following the Date of Termination, a lump sum cash
          payment of $1,550,000.

          (d) TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE OR DISABILITY OR
     BY THE EXECUTIVE FOR GOOD REASON. If the Executive's employment hereunder
     is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability or by the
     Executive for Good Reason, then:

               (i) the Company shall pay the Executive the Accrued Benefits;

               (ii) the Company shall pay the Executive an Annual Incentive
          payment determined, prorated and paid in accordance with the terms of
          the applicable plan;


                                        8


<PAGE>



               (iii) the Company shall pay to the Executive, as soon as
          practicable but no later than 30 days following the Date of
          Termination, a lump sum amount equal to the sum of (A) two times the
          Executive's then-current Base Salary and (B) the average of the Annual
          Incentives paid or payable to the Executive for the three calendar
          years immediately preceding the year in which the Date of Termination
          occurs, or such lesser period during which the Executive was employed
          by the Company, offset by any severance paid to the Executive pursuant
          to any other severance pay plan or program of the Company;

               (iv) (A) the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable
          (and shall remain exercisable in accordance with the applicable plans
          and individual agreements), (B) any other options to acquire Common
          Stock granted to the Executive shall become vested and remain
          exercisable in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans and
          individual agreements and (C) the Restricted Stock shall be released
          from restriction;

               (v) the Company shall offer the Executive and his qualified
          dependents continued coverage under the Company's insurance plans, as
          required by the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
          (COBRA), at the Company's cost, so long as the Executive or his
          dependents are eligible for COBRA coverage; and

               (vi) the Executive shall be provided with the Pension Credit.

     7. MITIGATION. The Executive shall not be required to mitigate amounts
payable pursuant to Section 6 hereof by seeking other employment or otherwise,
nor shall such payments be reduced on account of any remuneration earned by the
Executive attributable to employment by another employer, by retirement
benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by the Executive to
the Company (other than any amounts owed by the Executive under Company benefit
plans and agreements and any expenses incurred by the Company on the Executive's
behalf and at the Executive's request) or otherwise.

     8. INDEMNIFICATION. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company
shall indemnify the Executive (including the advancement of expenses) for any
judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including

                                        9


<PAGE>


attorneys' fees, incurred by the Executive in connection with the defense of any
lawsuit or other claim to which he is made a party by reason of being an
officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. During
the Employment Period and for at least three years thereafter, the Company shall
use its reasonable best efforts to maintain customary director and officer
liability insurance covering the Executive for acts and omissions during the
Employment Period.

     9. EXECUTIVE COVENANTS. (a) During the Employment Period, and for a period
of one year thereafter, the Executive shall not, either directly or indirectly,
for himself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, company,
partnership, corporation, business, group or other entity (each, a "Person"):

          (i) engage, as an officer, director, owner, partner, member, joint
     venturer, or in a managerial capacity, whether as an employee, independent
     contractor, consultant, advisor or sales representative, in any business
     engaged in the manufacture, sale or distribution of non-alcoholic
     beverages; or

          (ii) solicit or attempt to solicit, recruit or attempt to recruit, any
     employee, agent or contract worker of the Company with whom the Executive
     had contact during the course of his employment with the Company, or

     (b) For the purposes of this Section 9, references to "the Company" shall
mean the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.

     (c) The covenants in this Section 9 are severable and separate, and the
unenforceability of any specific covenant shall not affect the provisions of any
other covenant. If any provision of this Section 9 relating to the time period
or geographic areas of the restrictive covenants shall be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to exceed the maximum time period or geographic area, as
applicable, that such court deems reasonable and enforceable, then this
Agreement shall automatically be considered to have been amended and revised to
reflect such determination.

     (d) All of the covenants in this Section 9 shall be construed as an
agreement independent of any other provisions in this Agreement, and the
existence of any claim or cause of action the Executive may have against the
Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute
a defense to the enforcement by the Company of such covenants.


                                       10


<PAGE>



     (e) The Executive has carefully read and considered the provisions of this
Section 9 and, having done so, agrees that the restrictive covenants in this
Section 9 impose a fair and reasonable restraint on the Executive and are
reasonably required to protect the interests of the Company and its officers,
directors, employees, and stockholders. The Executive covenants that he will not
challenge the enforceability of this Section 9 nor will he raise any equitable
defense to its enforcement.

     10. TRADE SECRETS AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

     (a) For purposes of this Section, "Confidential Information" means any data
or information, other than Trade Secrets, that is valuable to the Company and
not generally known to the public or to competitors of the Company. "Trade
Secret" means information including, but not limited to, any technical or
nontechnical data, formula, pattern, compilation program, device, method,
technique, drawing, process, financial data, financial plan, product plan, list
of actual or potential customers or suppliers or other information similar to
any of the foregoing, which (i) derives economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper
means by, other persons who can derive economic value from its disclosure or use
and (ii) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances
to maintain its secrecy.

     (b) The Executive acknowledges he is employed by the Company in a
confidential relationship wherein he, in the course of his employment with the
Company, has received or will receive and has had or will have access to
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets of the Company, including but not
limited to confidential and secret business and marketing plans, strategies and
studies, detailed client/customer lists and information relating to the
operations and business requirements of those clients/customers and accordingly,
he is willing to enter into the covenants contained in Sections 9 and 10 of this
Agreement in order to provide the Company with what he considers to be
reasonable protection for its interest.

     (c) The Executive hereby agrees that during the Employment Period and
thereafter, he will hold in confidence all Confidential Information of the
Company and its direct or indirect subsidiaries that came into his knowledge
during his employment by the Company and shall not disclose, publish or make use
of such Confidential Information without the prior written consent of the
Company.

     (d) The Executive shall hold in confidence all Trade Secrets of the Company
and its direct or indirect subsidiaries that came into his knowledge during


                                       11


<PAGE>



his employment by the Company and shall not disclose, publish or make use of at
any time after the date hereof such Trade Secrets without the prior written
consent of the Company for as long as the information remains a Trade Secret.

     (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Section will not
apply to (i) information required to be disclosed by the Executive in the
ordinary course of his duties hereunder or (ii) Confidential Information that
otherwise becomes generally known in the industry or to the public through no
act of the Executive or any person or entity acting by or on the Executive's
behalf, or which is required to be disclosed by court order or applicable law.

     (f) The parties agree that the restrictions stated in this Section 10 are
in addition to and not in lieu of protections afforded to trade secrets and
confidential information under applicable state law. Nothing in this Agreement
is intended to or shall be interpreted as diminishing or otherwise limiting the
Company's right under applicable state law to protect its trade secrets and
confidential information.

     11. INVENTIONS. The Executive agrees to promptly report and disclose to the
Company all developments, discoveries, methods, processes, designs, inventions,
ideas, or improvements (hereinafter collectively called "Work Product"),
conceived, made, implemented, or reduced to practice by the Executive, whether
alone or acting with others, during the Executive's employment with the Company,
that is developed (a) on the Company's time, or (b) while utilizing, directly or
indirectly, the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret
information. the Executive acknowledges and agrees that all Work Product is the
sole and exclusive property of the Company. The Executive agrees to assign, and
hereby automatically assigns, without further consideration, to the Company any
and all rights, title, and interest in and to all Work Product; provided
however, that this Section shall not apply to any Work Product for which no
equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information of the Company was
used and which was developed entirely on the Executive's own time, unless the
Work Product (a) relates directly to the Company's business or its actual or
demonstrably anticipated research or development, or (b) results from any work
performed by the Executive for the Company. The Company, its successors and
assigns, shall have the right to obtain and hold in its or their own name
copyright registrations, trademark registrations, patents and any other
protection available to the work Product. The Executive agrees to perform, upon
the reasonable request of the Company, during or after employment, such further
acts as may be necessary or desirable to transfer, perfect, and defend the
Company's ownership of the Work Product.


                                       12


<PAGE>



     12. RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY. All records, designs, patents, business
plans, financial statements, manuals, memoranda, customer lists, customer
database, rolodex and other property delivered to or compiled by the Executive
by or on behalf of the Company (including the respective subsidiaries thereof)
or its representatives, vendors or customers which pertain to the business of
the Company (including the respective subsidiaries thereof) shall be and remain
the property of the Company, and be subject at all times to its discretion and
control. Upon the request of the Company and, in any event, upon the termination
of the Executive's employment with the Company, the Executive shall deliver all
such materials to the Company. Likewise, all correspondence, reports, records,
charts, advertising materials and other similar data pertaining to the business,
activities or future plans of the Company which are collected by the Executive
shall be delivered promptly to the Company without request by it upon
termination of the Executive's employment.

     13. EQUITABLE REMEDY. Because of the difficulty of measuring economic
losses to the Company as a result of a breach of the covenants set forth in
Sections 9, 10, 11 and 12, and because of the immediate and irreparable damage
that would be caused to the Company for which monetary damages would not be a
sufficient remedy, it is hereby agreed that in addition to all other remedies
that may be available to the Company at law or equity, the Company shall be
entitled to specific performance and any injunctive or other equitable relief as
a remedy for my breach or threatened breach of the Executive's covenants.

     14. SUCCESSORS; BINDING AGREEMENT.

     (a) COMPANY'S SUCCESSORS. No rights or obligations of the Company under
this Agreement may be assigned or transferred by the Company except that such
rights or obligations may be assigned or transferred pursuant to a merger or
consolidation in which the Company is not the continuing entity, or the sale or
liquidation of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company, provided that the assignee or transferee is the successor to all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company and such assignee
or transferee assumes the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company, as
contained in this Agreement, either contractually or as a matter of law. Prior
to any such succession, the Company will require any such successor expressly to
assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same
extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had
taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as
hereinbefore defined and shall include any successor to its business and/or
assets as aforesaid which executes and

                                       13


<PAGE>



delivers the agreement provided for in this Section 9 or which otherwise becomes
bound by all the terms and provisions of this Agreement.

     (b) EXECUTIVE'S SUCCESSORS. This Agreement shall not be assignable by the
Executive. This Agreement and all rights of the Executive hereunder shall inure
to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal
representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees,
devisees and legatees. Upon the Executive's death, all amounts to which he is
entitled hereunder, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the Executive's devisee, legatee,
or other designee or, if there be no such designee, to the Executive's estate.

     15. NOTICE. For the purposes of this Agreement, notices, demands and all
other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or (unless otherwise
specified) mailed by United States certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

        If to the Executive:

                Deval L. Patrick
                Milton, MA

        If to the Company:

                The Coca-Cola Company
                One Coca-Cola Plaza
                Atlanta, GA  30313

                Attention:  Chief Executive Officer

or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in
writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall
be effective only upon receipt.

     16. MISCELLANEOUS. No provisions of this Agreement may be modified unless
such modification is agreed to in writing signed by the Executive and an
authorized officer of the Company. Any waiver or discharge must be in writing
and signed by the Executive or such an authorized officer of the Company, as

                                       14


<PAGE>



the case may be. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by
the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of
this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of
similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or
subsequent time. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of
this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without
regard to its conflicts of law principles.

     17. WITHHOLDING. Any payments provided for in this Agreement shall be paid
net of any applicable withholding of taxes required under federal, state or
local law.

     18. ARBITRATION; LEGAL FEES. Except as otherwise provided herein, all
controversies, claims or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement
shall be settled in Atlanta, GA, under the rules of the American Arbitration
Association then in effect, and judgment upon such award rendered by the
arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction. The costs
of the arbitration shall be borne by the Company. The Company shall pay the
reasonable legal fees and disbursements incurred by the Executive in connection
with the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement, subject to a maximum
amount of $25,000. In addition, the Company agrees to pay promptly as incurred,
to the fullest extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the
Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest by the Company, the
Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under,
any provisions of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest initiated
by the Executive about the amount of any payment due pursuant to this
Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable
federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended.

     19. VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision or
provisions of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and
effect.

     20. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which
together will constitute one and the same instrument.

     21. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement (together with any option and
restricted stock agreements evidencing the awards contemplated hereby) set forth
the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter
contained

                                       15


<PAGE>



herein and supersedes all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements,
communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by the
parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein; and any prior
agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained
herein is hereby terminated and cancelled.







[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]







                                       16

<PAGE>



     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on
February 21, 2001 to be effective as of the Effective Date.


                                        THE COCA-COLA COMPANY


                                        /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        ------------------------------------
                                        Name:  /S/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        Title: Chairman and CEO








                                        /S/ DEVAL L. PATRICK
                                        ------------------------------------
                                        Executive







                                       17

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.21.2
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>x10-21b.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER TO DEVAL L. PATRICK, DATED 1-4-02
<TEXT>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 21.2






                                January 4, 2002



Mr. Deval L. Patrick
The Coca-Cola Company
Atlanta, Georgia

Dear Deval:

As you are aware, as an executive of the Company you are
required to meet certain stock ownership requirements.

It is the Companys desire that you begin to take action to
satisfy those stock ownership requirements.

I am pleased to advise you that I recommended and the
Compensation Committee of the Board approved my
recommendation to accelerate from April 1, 2002 to January 15,
2002 the remaining Make-Whole Payment of $500,000
contemplated by your Employment Agreement.


                                        Sincerely



                                        /s/ Douglas N. Daft





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.22.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>x10-22a.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT - STEVEN J. HEYER
<TEXT>
                                                              EXHIBIT 10.22.1


                              THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
                                 Coca-Cola Plaza
                                Atlanta, Georgia

                                                                ADDRESS REPLY TO
                                                                P.O. Drawer 1734
                                                              Atlanta, GA  30301
                                                                     -----
                                                                    404-676-2121


                                  March 2, 2001



VIA HAND DELIVERY

Mr. Steven J. Heyer
Atlanta, GA

Dear Steve:

     It is my pleasure to extend to you an offer of employment with The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company") upon the terms set forth in the attached term
sheet. This offer will remain open for your acceptance until 6:00 p.m. (E.S.T.)
April 1, 2001, and anticipates your becoming an employee by April 18 , 2001.
Please signify your acceptance of such employment by signing as indicated below.
This letter agreement may be executed in counterparts.


                                        /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Douglas N. Daft
                                        Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                        Chief Executive Officer




/s/ STEVEN J. HEYER
- ---------------------------
Steven J. Heyer

Date:   March 22, 2001



<PAGE>



                                    Terms of
                               Employment between
                        Steven J. Heyer ("Executive") and
                        The Coca-Cola Company ("Company")
                                  March 2, 2001


1.   POSITION AND DUTIES; PLACE OF PERFORMANCE: (a) During the Employment Period
     (as defined  below),  the Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President
     of the  Company  and  President,  Coca-Cola  Company  Ventures,  subject to
     election  by the Board of  Directors  of the  Company  (the  "Board").  The
     Executive  shall  report to the  Chairman of the Board and Chief  Executive
     Officer  of  the  Company  (the  "Chief  Executive  Officer").  During  the
     Employment  Period,  the  Executive  shall  have  those  powers  and duties
     consistent with his positions and assigned by the Chief Executive  Officer,
     including, but not limited to leading Company joint venture or acquisition,
     innovation  and  incubation  activities  and acting as a Coca-Cola  Company
     member of Boards of Company joint ventures.  Working with the CEO and other
     executive  officers,  the Executive will also lead and direct the Company's
     marketing, long range planning and strategy development process. During the
     Employment  Period,  the  Executive  shall  be a  member  of the  Company's
     Executive  Committee.  The Executive agrees to devote  substantially all of
     his working time to the performance of his duties for the Company, provided
     that  Executive  shall be entitled to serve on  corporate,  charitable  and
     civic boards to the extent such activities do not materially interfere with
     the performance of his duties hereunder.  Effective no later than the first
     regularly-scheduled  Company Board of Directors  meeting which occurs on or
     after the date of the  commencement  of Executive's  employment,  Executive
     will be elected, designated or appointed to the foregoing.

2.   EMPLOYMENT PERIOD: The period during which the Executive is employed by the
     Company  hereunder (the "Employment  Period") is anticipated to commence no
     later than April 18, 2001 (such commencement of employment,  the "Effective
     Date") and shall end on the fifth  anniversary  thereof;  provided however,
     that commencing on the fourth  anniversary of the Effective Date (each such
     anniversary,  a "Renewal Date"), the Employment Period shall  automatically
     be extended for one additional year unless, no later than the date which is
     four months prior to such Renewal Date, the Company or the Executive  shall
     have given notice not to extend the Employment Period.

                                        2


<PAGE>



3.   ANNUAL  SALARY:  $850,000 for 2001,  subject to increase (but not decrease)
     thereafter.

4.   ANNUAL INCENTIVE:  So long as the Executive is employed by the Company,  he
     shall be eligible  to receive  annual cash  incentive  awards (the  "Annual
     Incentive")  pursuant  to and  subject to the terms and  conditions  of the
     Company's  Annual  Performance  Incentive  Plan  or  Executive  Performance
     Incentive Plan (or any successor or companion plan). The Executive's Annual
     Incentive paid in respect of 2001 shall in no event be less than 80% of his
     target Annual Incentive for such year. The Executive's  Annual Incentive in
     respect of 2001 and for each year after  2001  shall be  determined  on the
     basis  of  Company  and  individual  performance  and  shall in no event be
     targeted  at a  percentage  less than the target  percentage  set for other
     senior  executive  officers nor shall the target and opportunity for future
     awards be less than the  initial  target and  opportunity.  In the event of
     termination of employment for any reason other than a termination for Cause
     or a  resignation  other than for Good Reason during any  subsequent  bonus
     year,  a pro rata  portion of the annual  performance  bonus  shall be paid
     after qualifying Company performance has been certified.

5.   ANNUAL PERFORMANCE LTIP AND EQUITY BASED INCENTIVE COMPENSATION:

     (a)  LONG-TERM  INCENTIVE.  So long as the  Executive  is  employed  by the
          Company,  he shall be eligible  to receive  long-term  cash  incentive
          awards  (the  "Long-Term  Incentive")  pursuant  to and subject to the
          terms and conditions of the Company's Long Term Performance  Incentive
          Plan (or any successor or companion plan).  The target  percentage for
          the Executive's Long-Term Incentive for each performance period during
          the  Employment  Period  shall  in no event  be less  than the  target
          percentage set for senior executive  officers nor shall the target and
          opportunity  for  future  awards be less than the  initial  target and
          opportunity.  In the event of termination of employment for any reason
          other than a  termination  for Cause or a  resignation  other than for
          Good Reason,  a pro rata portion of the each on-going LTIP award shall
          be paid after qualifying Company performance has been certified.

     (b)  FUTURE  EQUITY  GRANTS.  At  such  time(s)  during  each  year  of the
          Employment  Period that the  Compensation  Committee or a subcommittee
          thereof  approves  annual  stock  option  grants to  senior  executive
          officers of the Company, and provided that the Executive is then still
          employed by the Company,  the Chief Executive  Officer shall recommend
          to the  Compensation  Committee  a grant  for the  Executive  of stock
          options (and/or other equity) according to the terms of the applicable
          plans,  within  an  award  value  range  (based  upon a Black  Scholes
          valuation)  of  $9  to  $12  million  subject  to  discretion  of  the
          Compensation  Committee.  It is the Company's expectation that as long
          as the


                                        2


<PAGE>



          performance of the Company and the Executive are within a reasonable
          range, that awards within this range will be made.

     (c)  All performance and equity based awards and other benefits provided to
          Executive shall vest, remain  exercisable and/or become payable upon a
          change in control as provided in the applicable  plans, the provisions
          shall be no less favorable to Executive than those applicable to other
          senior executive officers.

6.   GROUP/EXECUTIVE BENEFITS: During the Employment Period, the Executive shall
     be eligible to  participate  in such other  employee  benefit  programs and
     perquisite  arrangements  as are applicable  generally to employees  and/or
     made available to senior  executives of the Company (the "Benefit  Plans"),
     in accordance  with the terms and conditions of such Benefit Plans and on a
     basis no less favorable than the other senior executive officers,  but with
     all waiting periods waived to the maximum extent  permitted by such Benefit
     Plans. Executive will generally have access to a Company plane for business
     travel and  Executive  and Family will have access to a Company plane on an
     "as available"  basis for other than business  travel,  assuming all planes
     are not needed for business  purposes,  with  obligation  to reimburse  for
     personal use based upon first class airfare.

7.   SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION:

     (a)  The  Executive  shall be eligible  for pension  benefits  equal to the
          amount  that  he  would  have  earned  under  the  Company's  Employee
          Retirement Plan and Supplemental Retirement Plan (and any successor or
          companion plans), if the Executive's service had been determined as if
          he had been in the employ of the  Company  for a number of years equal
          to the sum of (i) his  actual  number  of  years of  service  with the
          Company and (ii) ten (10) (the "Pension Credit").  Such Pension Credit
          shall be  reduced  by the  amounts  actually  paid under such plans in
          accordance  with  their  terms.  The  Company  reserves  the  right to
          purchase  annuities or such other vehicles as it may determine to fund
          the Pension Credit and/or to pay to the Executive,  at the time of the
          Executive's retirement,  death or Disability, a lump sum payment equal
          to the  present  value of the  Pension  Credit,  determined  using the
          interest rate prescribed by the Pension Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation
          for valuing immediate  annuities for plans terminating in the month in
          which the Executive's retirement, death or Disability occurs.

     (b)  The Pension Credit shall not be payable under this item 7 if, prior to
          the fifth  anniversary of the commencement of employment,  Executive's
          employment  is terminated by the Company for Cause or by the Executive
          without Good Reason.

                                        3


<PAGE>



8.   HIRING INDUCEMENT; MAKE WHOLE.

     (a)  RESTRICTED STOCK. Executive shall receive a restricted stock award for
          50,000  shares cliff vesting on the fifth  anniversary  of the date of
          grant,  subject  to  release  in full in the event of  termination  of
          employment  for any  reason  other than a  termination  for Cause or a
          resignation other than for Good Reason.

     (b)  PERFORMANCE  GRANT.  Executive  shall receive a five-year  performance
          restricted  stock award for 125,000 shares vesting in accordance  with
          established  performance  criteria.  In the  event of  termination  of
          employment  for any  reason  other than a  termination  for Cause or a
          resignation  other  than for Good  Reason,  a pro rata  portion of the
          performance  restricted  stock  shall  be  released  after  qualifying
          Company performance has been certified.

     (c)  SIGN-ON.  Executive shall be entitled to receive $1,000,000,  of which
          $500,000  shall be paid in cash no later than 10  business  days after
          commencement  of  employment  and the  remainder  shall be paid on the
          first  anniversary of commencing  employment  (the  "Deferred  Sign-On
          Payment").  In the event of  termination  of employment for any reason
          other than a  termination  for Cause or a  resignation  other than for
          Good Reason  prior to payment of the  $1,000,000  in full,  any unpaid
          amount  shall  be  paid  within  five  (5)   business   days  of  such
          termination.


                                        4


<PAGE>



     (d)  STOCK  OPTIONS.  The Chief  Executive  Officer shall  recommend to the
          Stock Option Subcommittee of the Board at its first meeting coinciding
          with or next  following the  Effective  Date that the Company grant to
          the Executive a stock option (the "Option"), pursuant to the Company's
          1999  Stock  Option  Plan,  to  purchase  a number  of  shares  of the
          Company's  common stock,  par value $0.25 per share  ("Common  Stock")
          having a Black-Scholes  value equal to 1) the  Black-Scholes  value of
          the unvested  options to acquire  shares of the  Executive's  employer
          (the "Current  Employer") held by the Executive on the date hereof and
          2) the value of lost LTIP  participation at his former  employer.  The
          Black-Scholes  value  of the  Option  shall  be  calculated  as of the
          Effective Date using the same methodology and assumptions  utilized by
          the Company in valuing  annual  grants to all  employees in 2000.  The
          Black-Scholes  value of the  options to acquire  shares of the current
          employer  held by the Executive on the date hereof shall be calculated
          as of the Effective  Date using the same  methodology  (including  the
          methodology used to determine  assumptions) utilized by the Company in
          valuing  annual  grants  to  employees  in  2000.  Any   Black-Scholes
          calculation  made pursuant to this Agreement shall be delivered to the
          Executive  reasonably  in advance of the date of grant of the  Option.
          The Option grant shall be reflected in an option agreement which shall
          include the terms of the Company's  standard form of option  agreement
          as in effect on the date of grant of the Option.

9.   TERMINATION  FOR CAUSE OR BY EXECUTIVE  OTHER THAN FOR GOOD REASON.  If the
     Executive's  employment hereunder is terminated by the Company for Cause or
     by the Executive  other than for Good Reason,  then the Option shall become
     fully vested and  exercisable for a period of six months in accordance with
     the  applicable  plans and individual  agreements  and; other option awards
     that are vested upon the  termination  date will remain  exercisable  for a
     period of six months, as provided by the plan and applicable agreements.

10.  TERMINATION  BY THE COMPANY  OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE OR  DISABILITY  OR BY THE
     EXECUTIVE  FOR GOOD REASON.:  If the  Executive's  employment  hereunder is
     terminated by the Company  other than for Cause or  disability  (as defined
     under the Company's long-term disability plan) or by the Executive for Good
     Reason, then:

          (i)  the Company shall pay the Executive an Annual  Incentive  payment
               determined, prorated and paid in accordance with the terms of the
               applicable plan(s);

          (ii) the Company shall pay to the  Executive,  as soon as  practicable
               but no later than 30 days  following the Date of  Termination,  a
               lump sum amount equal to (A) any unpaid Deferred  Sign-On Payment
               plus (B)

                                        5


<PAGE>



               three times the sum of (1) the  Executive's  then-current Base
               Salary  and (2) the  average of the Annual  Incentives  paid or
               payable to the Executive for the three calendar years immediately
               preceeding the year in  which the Date of Termination occurs, or
               such lesser period  during which the  Executive was employed  by
               the Company, offset by (C) any severance  paid to the  Executive
               pursuant to  any  other severance  pay  plan  or program  of the
               Company.

          (iii)(A) the Option shall become  fully  vested and  exercisable  (and
               shall remain  exercisable in accordance with the applicable plans
               and  individual  agreements),  (B) any other  options  to acquire
               Common Stock  granted to the  Executive  shall become  vested and
               remain exercisable in accordance with the terms of the applicable
               plans and individual agreements,  (C) the 50,000 Restricted Stock
               award shall be released from restriction and (D) other restricted
               stock awards shall be considered in accordance  with the terms of
               the applicable plans and individual agreements;

          (iv) the  Company   shall  offer  the   Executive  and  his  qualified
               dependents  continued  coverage  under  the  Company's  insurance
               plans,   as  required   by  the   Consolidated   Omnibus   Budget
               Reconciliation  Act ("COBRA"),  at the Company's cost, so long as
               the Executive or his dependents are eligible for COBRA  coverage;
               and

          (v)  the  Executive   shall  be  provided  with  the  Pension  Credit,
               provided,  that for  purposes  thereof the amounts  described  in
               clause 10(ii) above shall be deemed paid under a severance policy
               and thereby taken into account in determining  Executive's  final
               average compensation.

11.  MITIGATION:  The  Executive  shall not be required to mitigate  any amounts
     payable hereunder by seeking other employment or otherwise,  nor shall such
     payments be reduced on account of any remuneration  earned by the Executive
     attributable to employment by another employer,  by retirement benefits, by
     offset  against  any  amount  claimed  to be owed by the  Executive  to the
     Company (other than any amounts owed by the Executive under Company benefit
     plans and  agreements  and any  expenses  incurred  by the  Company  on the
     Executive's behalf and at the Executive's request) or otherwise.

                                        6


<PAGE>



12.  TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE:  Executive may, by at least 30 days prior written
     notice,  voluntarily terminate this agreement without liability at any time
     without Good Reason.

13.  FEES AND EXPENSES:  The Company will pay all  reasonable  legal fees not to
     exceed  $25,000 and related  expenses  incurred by Executive in  connection
     with the  negotiation  and  preparation  of the  employment  agreement.  In
     addition,  the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the Executive from
     any reasonable  attorneys  fees,  Executive may incur or be liable for as a
     result of his resignation  from his former employer to commence  employment
     with the Company.  The Company shall also pay all reasonable attorneys fees
     and expenses  incurred by Executive in connection  with any dispute between
     the Company and Executive  regarding the validity or enforceability  of, or
     liability under this Agreement.

14.  BINDING OF  SUCCESSORS:  The  Company  will cause any  successor  to all or
     substantially  all of its business  and/or  assets  expressly to assume and
     agree to perform Executive's employment agreement in the same manner and to
     the same extent that the Company is required to perform hereunder.

15.  CAUSE. The Company may terminate the Executive's  employment for Cause. For
     purposes hereof,  "Cause" shall mean (i) the Executive's material breach of
     this Agreement, (ii) the Executive's gross negligence in the performance or
     non-performance   of  any  of  his  material  duties  or   responsibilities
     hereunder,  (iii) the Executive's  dishonesty,  fraud or willful misconduct
     with  respect to, or willful  disparagement  of, the business or affairs of
     the  Company,  (iv)  the  Executive's  conviction  of  a  felony,  (v)  the
     Executive's being absent from work for twenty (20) consecutive days for any
     reason other than vacation, approved leave of absence (such approval not to
     be  unreasonably  withheld) or  disability  or illness  pursuant to Company
     policy  or  law.  No act or  failure  to act  by  the  Executive  shall  be
     considered  Cause  unless the Company  has given  detailed  written  notice
     thereof to the Executive  and, where  remedial  action is feasible,  he has
     failed to remedy the act or omission within twenty (20) business days after
     receiving such notice.

16.  GOOD REASON.  The Executive may terminate his employment for "Good Reason".
     For this purpose,  "Good Reason" shall mean, without  Executive's  consent,
     (a) the assignment to Executive of any duties  inconsistent in any material
     respect with Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as
     contemplated hereunder, or any other action by the Company which results in
     a  significant   diminution  in  such   position,   authority,   duties  or
     responsibilities,  excluding any isolated and inadvertent  action not taken
     in bad faith and which is  remedied  by the  Company  within  ten (10) days
     after receipt of notice thereof given by Executive; (b) any failure by the


                                        7

<PAGE>



     Company to comply  with  any of  the provisions  of terms  of  Executive's
     employment other than an isolated and  inadvertent  failure not  committed
     in  bad faith and  which  is  remedied by the Company  within ten (10) days
     after  receipt of notice  thereof  given by Executive; (c) Executive being
     required  to  relocate  to  a  principal  place  of  employment  more  than
     twenty-five  (25)  miles  from  Executive's  current  principal  place  of
     employment;  or (d) delivery by the Company of a notice  discontinuing  the
     automatic  extension feature of the  term of  Executive's employment as set
     forth in Section 2 hereof.

17.  EXECUTIVE COVENANTS.  (a) During the Employment Period, and for a period of
     one  year   thereafter,   the  Executive  shall  not,  either  directly  or
     indirectly,  for himself or on behalf of or in  conjunction  with any other
     person, company, partnership,  corporation, business, group or other entity
     (each, a "Person"):

     (i)  engage,  as  an  officer,  director,  owner,  partner,  member,  joint
          venturer,  or  in a  managerial  capacity,  whether  as  an  employee,
          independent contractor,  consultant,  advisor or sales representative,
          in any business  engaged in the  manufacture,  sale or distribution of
          non-alcoholic beverages; or

     (ii) solicit or  attempt to  solicit,  recruit or attempt to  recruit,  any
          employee,  agent or  contract  worker  of the  Company  with  whom the
          Executive  had contact  during the course of his  employment  with the
          Company.

     (b)  For the purposes of this Section,  references  to "the Company"  shall
          mean the Company and its direct and indirect  subsidiaries  and/or any
          Company joint ventures or incubators.

     (c)  The  covenants in this Section are  severable  and  separate,  and the
          unenforceability  of  any  specific  covenant  shall  not  affect  the
          provisions of any other  covenant.  If any provision of this Section 1
          relating to the time  period or  geographic  areas of the  restrictive
          covenants  shall be declared by a court of competent  jurisdiction  to
          exceed the maximum time period or geographic area, as applicable, that
          such court deems reasonable and enforceable, then this Agreement shall
          automatically  be  considered  to have been  amended  and  revised  to
          reflect such determination.

     (d)  All  of the  covenants  in  this  Section  shall  be  construed  as an
          agreement  independent of any other provisions in this Agreement,  and
          the  existence of any claim or cause of action the  Executive may have
          against  the  Company,   whether   predicated  on  this  Agreement  or
          otherwise,  shall not  constitute a defense to the  enforcement by the
          Company of such covenants.

                                        8


<PAGE>



     (e)  The Executive has carefully read and considered the provisions of this
          Section and, having done so, agrees that the restrictive  covenants in
          this Section impose a fair and  reasonable  restraint on the Executive
          and are  reasonably  required to protect the  interests of the Company
          and  its  officers,  directors,   employees,  and  stockholders.   The
          Executive  covenants that he will not challenge the  enforceability of
          this  Section  nor  will  he  raise  any  equitable   defense  to  its
          enforcement.

18.  TRADE SECRETS AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

     (a)  For purposes of this  Section,  "Confidential  Information"  means any
          data or information, other than Trade Secrets, that is valuable to the
          Company and not generally known to the public or to competitors of the
          Company.  "Trade Secret" means information including,  but not limited
          to, any technical or nontechnical data, formula, pattern,  compilation
          program, device, method, technique,  drawing, process, financial data,
          financial plan, product plan, list of actual or potential customers or
          suppliers or other information similar to any of the foregoing,  which
          (i)  derives  economic  value,  actual  or  potential,  from not being
          generally  known to,  and not being  readily  ascertainable  by proper
          means  by,  other  persons  who can  derive  economic  value  from its
          disclosure  or use  and  (ii)  is the  subject  of  efforts  that  are
          reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.

     (b)  The  Executive  acknowledges  he  is  employed  by  the  Company  in a
          confidential  relationship wherein he, in the course of his employment
          with the  Company,  has  received or will  receive and has had or will
          have  access to  Confidential  Information  and Trade  Secrets  of the
          Company, including but not limited to confidential and secret business
          and marketing plans, strategies and studies,  detailed client/customer
          lists  and  information   relating  to  the  operations  and  business
          requirements of those clients/customers and accordingly, he is willing
          to enter into the  covenants  contained  in Sections 17 and 18 of this
          Agreement in order to provide the Company with what he considers to be
          reasonable protection for its interest.

     (c)  The  Executive  hereby  agrees that during the  Employment  Period and
          thereafter, he will hold in confidence all Confidential Information of
          the Company and its direct or indirect subsidiaries that came into his
          knowledge during his employment by the Company and shall not disclose,
          publish or make use of such Confidential Information without the prior
          written consent of the Company.


                                        9


<PAGE>



     (d)  The  Executive  shall  hold in  confidence  all Trade  Secrets  of the
          Company  and its direct or  indirect  subsidiaries  that came into his
          knowledge during his employment by the Company and shall not disclose,
          publish  or make use of at any time after the date  hereof  such Trade
          Secrets  without the prior written  consent of the Company for as long
          as the information remains a Trade Secret.

     (e)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this Section will not
          apply to (i) information  required to be disclosed by the Executive in
          the  ordinary  course of his  duties  hereunder  or (ii)  Confidential
          Information that otherwise  becomes generally known in the industry or
          to the public  through no act of the Executive or any person or entity
          acting by or on the  Executive's  behalf,  or which is  required to be
          disclosed by court order or applicable law.

     (f)  The parties agree that the restrictions  stated in this Section 18 are
          in  addition  to and not in  lieu of  protections  afforded  to  trade
          secrets  and  confidential  information  under  applicable  state law.
          Nothing in this  Agreement is intended to or shall be  interpreted  as
          diminishing or otherwise limiting the Company's right under applicable
          state law to protect its trade secrets and confidential information.

19.  INVENTIONS.  The  Executive  agrees to promptly  report and disclose to the
     Company  all  developments,   discoveries,   methods,  processes,  designs,
     inventions,  ideas, or improvements  (hereinafter collectively called "Work
     Product"),  conceived,  made,  implemented,  or reduced to  practice by the
     Executive,  whether  alone or acting with  others,  during the  Executive's
     employment  with the Company,  that is developed (a) on the Company's time,
     or (b) while utilizing,  directly or indirectly,  the Company's  equipment,
     supplies,   facilities,   or  trade  secret   information.   the  Executive
     acknowledges  and agrees  that all Work  Product is the sole and  exclusive
     property  of the  Company.  The  Executive  agrees to  assign,  and  hereby
     automatically assigns,  without further  consideration,  to the Company any
     and all rights,  title,  and interest in and to all Work Product;  provided
     however, that this Section shall not apply to any Work Product for which no
     equipment, supplies, facilities, or trade secret information of the Company
     was used and which was  developed  entirely  on the  Executive's  own time,
     unless the Work Product (a) relates  directly to the Company's  business or
     its actual or  demonstrably  anticipated  research or  development,  or (b)
     results from any work  performed  by the  Executive  for the  Company.  The
     Company,  its  successors  and assigns,  shall have the right to obtain and
     hold  in  its  or  their  own  name  copyright   registrations,   trademark
     registrations,  patents  and any  other  protection  available  to the work
     Product.  The Executive agrees to perform,  upon the reasonable  request of
     the  Company,  during  or after  employment,  such  further  acts as may be
     necessary  or  desirable to  transfer,  perfect,  and defend the  Company's
     ownership of the Work Product.

                                       10


<PAGE>




20.  RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY. All records,  designs, patents, business plans,
     financial  statements,   manuals,   memoranda,   customer  lists,  customer
     database,  rolodex  and other  property  delivered  to or  compiled  by the
     Executive  by or  on  behalf  of  the  Company  (including  the  respective
     subsidiaries  thereof) or its  representatives,  vendors or customers which
     pertain  to  the  business  of  the  Company   (including   the  respective
     subsidiaries  thereof) shall be and remain the property of the Company, and
     be subject at all times to its discretion and control.  Upon the request of
     the Company  and, in any event,  upon the  termination  of the  Executive's
     employment with the Company, the Executive shall deliver all such materials
     to the Company.  Likewise, all correspondence,  reports,  records,  charts,
     advertising  materials and other  similar data  pertaining to the business,
     activities  or  future  plans of the  Company  which are  collected  by the
     Executive shall be delivered  promptly to the Company without request by it
     upon termination of the Executive's employment.

21.  EQUITABLE REMEDY. Because of the difficulty of measuring economic losses to
     the Company as a result of a breach of the  covenants set forth in Sections
     17, 18, 19 and 20, and because of the immediate and irreparable damage that
     would be caused to the Company for which  monetary  damages  would not be a
     sufficient  remedy,  it is  hereby  agreed  that in  addition  to all other
     remedies that may be available to the Company at law or equity, the Company
     shall be entitled  to  specific  performance  and any  injunctive  or other
     equitable  relief as a remedy  for my breach  or  threatened  breach of the
     Executive's covenants.

22.  NOTICE. For the purposes of this Agreement,  notices, demands and all other
     communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
     be deemed to have been duly  given  when  delivered  or  (unless  otherwise
     specified)  mailed by United States  certified or registered  mail,  return
     receipt re-quested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

                        If to the Executive:

                        Mr. Steven J. Heyer
                        Atlanta, Georgia



                                       11


<PAGE>



                        If to the Company:

                        The Coca-Cola Company
                        One Coca-Cola Plaza
                        Atlanta, GA 30313
                        Attention: Chief Executive Officer

     or  to  such  other  address as either  party may have  furnished to the
     other in writing in  accordance  herewith,  except that notices of change
     of address shall be effective only upon receipt.

23.  MISCELLANEOUS.  No provisions of this Agreement may be modified unless such
     modification  is  agreed  to in  writing  signed  by the  Executive  and an
     authorized  officer  of the  Company.  Any waiver or  discharge  must be in
     writing and signed by the  Executive or such an  authorized  officer of the
     Company,  as the case may be. No waiver by either  party hereto at any time
     of any  breach by the  other  party  hereto  of, or  compliance  with,  any
     condition  or  provision  of this  Agreement  to be performed by such other
     party  shall be deemed a waiver of  similar  or  dissimilar  provisions  or
     conditions  at the same or at any prior or subsequent  time.  The validity,
     interpretation,  construction  and  performance of this Agreement  shall be
     governed  by the  laws of the  State  of  Delaware  without  regard  to its
     conflicts of law principles.

24.  WITHHOLDING.  Any payments provided for in this Agreement shall be paid net
     of any applicable  withholding  of taxes  required under federal,  state or
     local law.

25.  VALIDITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision or provisions
     of this Agreement  shall not affect the validity or  enforceability  of any
     other  provision  of this  Agreement,  which shall remain in full force and
     effect.

26.  COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more  counterparts,
     each of which shall be deemed to be an original  but all of which  together
     will constitute one and the same instrument.

27.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This Agreement  (together with any option and restricted
     stock  agreements  which may evidence the awards  contemplated  hereby) set
     forth the entire  agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject
     matter  contained  herein and  supersedes all prior  agreements,  promises,
     covenants,  arrangements,  communications,  representations  or warranties,
     whether  oral or written,  by the parties  hereto in respect of the subject
     matter contained  herein;  and any prior agreement of the parties hereto in
     respect of the subject  matter  contained  herein is hereby  terminated and
     canceled.


                                     12


<PAGE>



     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have executed  this  Agreement on
March ___, 2001 to be effective as of the Effective Date.



THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

By: /s/ DOUGLAS N. DAFT
Name:-------------------
Title:------------------


/s/ STEVEN J. HEYER
- ------------------------
Executive






                                       13

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.22.2
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>x10-22b.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER TO STEVEN J. HEYER, DATED 1-4-02
<TEXT>








                                January 4, 2002



Mr. Steven J. Heyer
The Coca-Cola Company
Atlanta, Georgia

Dear Steve:

As you are aware, as an executive of the Company you are
required to meet certain stock ownership requirements.

It is the Company's desire that you begin to take action to
satisfy those stock ownership requirements.

I am pleased to advise you that I recommended and the
Compensation Committee of the Board approved my
recommendation to accelerate from April 1, 2002 to January 15,
2002 the Deferred Sign-On Payment of $500,000 contemplated
by your Employment Agreement.


                                        Sincerely



                                        /s/ Douglas N. Daft




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.24
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>x10-24.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN KO AND JOSEPH R. GLADDEN, JR.
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.24

                      [LETTERHEAD OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY]

                                 June 12, 2001




PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
- -------------------------

Mr. Joseph R. Gladden, Jr.
Atlanta, GA

Dear Joe:

Thanks for our recent conversations. I believe we have reached an agreement
which accommodates the Company's interest in a clear transition, Deval's
interest in having access to you and your experience for his orientation, and
your interest in retaining the October 2000 option grant. This will confirm our
understandings.

The Company will extend your employment on a part-time basis through November 1,
2001. This will enable you to retain the options granted to you in October 2000,
which you would otherwise forfeit upon your original retirement date of June 1,
2001. You will be compensated at 50% of your current base salary from June 1
through October 31, 2001. You will continue to participate in all benefit
programs until October 31, 2001 and you will be considered for a prorated
incentive bonus for 2001 based on Company performance, personal performance and
contributions. Your retirement will be effective on November 1, 2001.

During your continued employment, your assignment will be to work with Deval as
needed to transition any activities or other work, and to assist him with his
orientation.

In exchange for the Company's agreement to continue your employment, you agree
not to disparage the Company, its officers or its employees. We will prepare for
your review and approval an appropriate amendment to the stock option agreement
memorializing this term and making the October 2000 option grant subject to
forfeiture in the event of disparagement.

<PAGE>

June 12, 2001
Page 2





The Company will provide whatever assistance you need to help you vacate your
office by June 20, 2001. At times when you are on site, the Company will provide
suitable office space and support. Through your extended employment, the Company
will also pay your normal work-related expenses, such as appropriate travel
expenses.

Upon your retirement, in accordance with the terms of the plans, all of the
other options that you hold will be fully vested and exercisable according to
their terms. In addition, your restricted stock will be released to you at that
time. The amendment we have discussed will apply only to the October 2000 grant.

If your services are required by the legal function after November 1, at the
discretion of the General Counsel, the Company would agree to a consulting
agreement at a daily rate of $1,500 for services rendered.

We appreciate your long and loyal service on behalf of The Coca-Cola Company.
Thank you for helping us accommodate all of the pertinent interests. We will get
you a draft amendment soon. Pat O'Neil and her staff will effect the other
necessary changes.

                                        Sincerely,


                                        /s/ James E. Chestnut







Accepted:  /s/ Joseph R. Gladden, Jr.
           --------------------------
           Joseph R. Gladden, Jr.

Date:      July 17, 2001


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>x10-25.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN KO AND CHARLES S. FRENETTE
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.25

                     [LETTERHEAD OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY]

                                August 22, 2001



Mr. Charles S. Frenette
Atlanta, Georgia

Dear Charlie:

This letter outlines the terms under which you will separate from
The Coca-Cola Company (the Company).  You have resigned as
Executive Vice President of The Coca-Cola Company and as President
and Chief Operating Officer, Europe, Eurasia and Africa Group of
The Coca-Cola Export Corporation, effective immediately.  You have
agreed to remain an employee of The Coca-Cola Company at your total
current rate of annual base salary as set by the Compensation Committee
("Base Salary") until October 31, 2001, (the "Separation Date").

The Board of Directors has accepted your resignation and the terms and
conditions described in this letter have been approved by the
Compensation Committee (or the appropriate Subcommittee) of the
Board.

Your repatriation to Atlanta, Georgia will be effective October 1, 2001.
Effective with your Separation Date, you will receive a lump sum payment
of two years Base Salary.  Payments will be offset by all salary
continuation, severance payments and any other applicable payments due
to you as a result of your separation under the laws of any country.

You are eligible for a prorated Annual Incentive for 2001, payable in 2002,
based upon your performance and after results are certified under the
terms of the Executive Performance Incentive Program and the Executive
Incentive Plan.

You will also be paid prorated payments for performance periods in
progress under the Long Term Incentive Plan after results are certified,
according to plan terms.

Both annual incentive and LTI payments will be subject to applicable taxes
and may be subject to hypothetical tax withholdings.  These payments will
be certified at the same time as awards for other officers (in February
2002) and paid to you within sixty (60) days after the awards are certified
under the terms of the plan, but in no event later than March 31, 2002.


<PAGE>

Mr. Charles S. Frenette
Atlanta, Georgia
August 22, 2001
Page 2




As soon as reasonably practical after your Separation Date, you will also
receive a payment of $1,500,000.

Related to your stock option grants, the following actions will be taken,
effective with your separation:

     - The retention grant made in February 2000 will be forfeited.

     - Options granted before 1997 are vested and will remain exercisable
       according to their terms (i.e., six months to exercise after your
       Separation Date).

     - Options granted after 1996 will fully vest on your Separation Date and
       will remain exercisable for the seven-year period beginning on the
       Separation Date, unless the original term of option expires earlier.

In exchange for the treatment of your options as noted above, your option
agreements for the grant made in May 2001 is hereby amended as
follows:

     "1 (a) (v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in
     the event that you should disparage the Company, its officers or employees
     this option will be forfeited. Disparagement means negative oral statements
     to the media which can be accurately demonstrated in fact to be
     attributable to you or negative statements in publications which can be
     accurately demonstrated in fact to be attributable to you."

Restrictions on your 72,500 shares of restricted stock will be released as of
your Separation Date, and shares will be delivered as soon as reasonably
practicable thereafter. The performance award, which could have resulted in a
future award of 125,000 restricted shares, will be forfeited.

<PAGE>

Mr. Charles S. Frenette
Atlanta, Georgia
August 22, 2001
Page 3





Your retirement benefits will consist only of those benefits already vested. As
soon as reasonably practicable after the Separation Date you will receive a lump
sum distribution of your Thrift Benefit under the Supplemental Plan according to
the terms of that plan. Also, your account in the Compensation Deferral and
Investment Program will be deferred in accordance with your irrevocable election
until you reach age 55, less elected early payments. At that time, you will
begin to receive monthly income from that program until age 80. Subject to your
elections and the terms and conditions of such plans, you will receive your
other vested benefits in the Thrift and Investment Plan, the Employee Retirement
Plan and the Supplemental Benefit Plan. You have been provided with a separate
letter detailing your vested pension and CDIP payments.

While you remain on payroll, your current benefits coverage will continue. The
Company will reimburse you for the cost of COBRA continuation of benefit
coverage for you, your spouse and your eligible dependents until the earlier of
the eighteen-month anniversary of your Separation Date or your obtaining
employment that provides medical coverage.

TAXES
- -----

You are entitled to a consultation with Ernst & Young, at no cost to you, to
discuss the implications of your repatriation and the Company's tax equalization
program. The Company will provide tax preparation through the services of Ernst
& Young for the current year's tax returns. You will remain in the tax
equalization program for the year of repatriation, and for 2002, if the annual
incentive or LTI payments described above are taxable in the UK or to collect
foreign tax credits. The Company will determine whether you remain in the tax
equalization program for subsequent years, in order to collect foreign tax
credits. As long as you are retained in the tax equalization program, the
Company will have Ernst & Young prepare your tax returns at Company expense.
However, you may be required to pay estimated U.S. federal and state taxes on
your income.

<PAGE>

Mr. Charles S. Frenette
Atlanta, Georgia
August 22, 2001
Page 4




TAXES (Continued)
- -----------------

Payments made under this agreement after your repatriation date will be subject
to applicable federal, state and local tax withholding and any estimated tax
due. Any UK tax on payments (excluding annual incentive and LTI as noted above)
under this agreement that arises due to i) your decision to remain in or return
to the UK following your repatriation date and/or ii) your bringing funds into
the UK is solely your responsibility, except that the Company will pay any
incremental UK tax on a reasonable amount (not to exceed 6,000 British pounds
per month) that is brought into the UK to cover living expenses through July
2002.

Should you exercise any stock options prior to your repatriation date, such
exercises will be subject to hypothetical tax withholding. When you exercise
stock options following your repatriation date, appropriate federal, state and
local tax will be withheld, and you will be personally liable for paying any
estimated federal, state or local taxes.

The manner in which hypothetical tax withholding and tax equalization works is
described in the International Service Program Guide.


INTERNATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM
- -----------------------------

You have received a letter outlining the allowances and payments under the
International Service Program. In addition to those normal plan allowances, the
following exceptions to policy have been approved for you:


1)   Your family will continue to be provided schooling and housing and other
     appropriate expatriate provisions, including host country, utility and
     automobile allowances, through the end of the 2001 - 2002 school year in
     London. You will be grossed up for any incremental tax (after reduction for
     applicable credits and exclusions) related to these allowances. This is
     contingent upon your family meeting applicable legal requirements to remain
     in the UK.

<PAGE>

Mr. Charles S. Frenette
Atlanta, Georgia
August 22, 2001
Page 5




INTERNATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM (Continued)
- -----------------------------------------

2)   Upon your return to the United States, Home Purchase Assistance will be
     provided and Home Sale Assistance (both described in the International
     Service Program Guide) of your Atlanta condominium, if it is sold.


RELEASE AND AGREEMENT ON CONFIDENTIALITY AND COMPETITION
- --------------------------------------------------------

The terms and conditions in this letter are contingent upon your signing
this letter and executing the attached Full and Complete Release and Agreement
on Confidentiality and Competition.


We appreciate your long and loyal service on behalf of
The Coca-Cola Company.


On behalf of the Board,


/s/ Cathleen P. Black                           /s/ James E. Chestnut
- --------------------------------                ----------------------------
Cathleen P. Black                                  James E. Chestnut
Chairman, Compensation Committee                Executive Vice President
The Board of Directors of                         The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company



Agreed and accepted this 29th day of August, 2001



/s/ Charles S. Frenette
- --------------------------------
Charles S. Frenette


<PAGE>


                         FULL AND COMPLETE RELEASE AND
                  AGREEMENT ON CONFIDENTIALITY AND COMPETITION


     In consideration of the benefits provided by The Coca-Cola Company as set
forth in the letter agreement dated August 22,2001, the sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, Charles S. Frenette ("Employee") and The Coca-Cola Company
agree as follows:

Section 1. Full and Complete Release.
- -------------------------------------

     1.1. Employee, for himself, his heirs, executors, administrators and
     assigns remises, releases and forever discharges The Coca-Cola Company and
     its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company"), and their respective
     directors, officers and employees of and from all debts, claims, actions,
     causes of actions (including, but not limited to, the Employee Retirement
     Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, 29 U.S.C., Section 1001, et. seq.,
     and those federal, state and foreign laws prohibiting employment
     discrimination based on age, sex, race, color, national origin, religion,
     handicap or veteran status such as the Age Discrimination in Employment
     Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 621 et seq., as amended by the Older Workers Benefit
     Protection Act, P.L. 101-433; Equal Pay Act of 1963, 9 U.S.C. Section 206
     et seq.; Title VII of The Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C.
     2000e et seq.; the Civil Rights Act of 1866, 42 U.S.C. 1981; Americans with
     Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12101, et seq., Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29
     U.S.C. Section 791 et seq.; the Family and Medical Leave Act, 28 U.S.C.
     2601 and 2611 et seq., the Georgia Age

<PAGE>

     Discrimination Act, Ga. Code Ann. 34-1-2; the Georgia Fair Employment
     Practices Act of 1978, Ga. Code Ann. 45-19-20 et seq.; and the Georgia
     Equal Employment for the Handicapped Code, Ga. Code Ann. 34-6A-1 et seq.),
     suits, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, covenants, contracts,
     claims for attorneys' fees, controversies, agreements, promises and all
     liabilities of any kind or nature whatsoever, at law, in equity, or
     otherwise which he ever had, now has, or which he, his heirs, executors,
     administrators and assigns hereafter can, shall or may have, from the
     beginning of his employment through the date he executes this Agreement,
     including those associated with his employment and separation from
     employment with the Company.

     1.2. The Company represents and warrants that it is not aware of any
     claims, other than receivables for taxes in the ordinary course of an
     International Services Associate relationship, that it has against Employee
     as of the date hereof.

     1.3. Wherein Employee's spouse, child or other immediate family member
     makes any claim for loss of consortium, or any other similar claim,
     arising out of the employment relationship between the parties and its
     termination thereof, Employee will indemnify and hold the Company harmless
     from any liability, including costs and expenses (as well as reasonable
     attorneys' ees) incurred by the Company as a result of any such claim.

                                       2

<PAGE>

     1.4. Employee understands and agrees:

          (a)  No rights or claims are waived that may arise after the date
               Employee executes this Agreement;

          (b)  Employee is advised to consult with an attorney prior to
               executing this Agreement;

          (c)  Employee has 21 days from the receipt of this Agreement within
               which to consider the Agreement;

          (d)  Employee has 7 days following the execution of this Agreement to
               revoke the Agreement; and

          (e)  The Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the
               revocation period of 7 days has expired.

     1.5. It is additionally understood and agreed that this Agreement is not
     and shall not be construed to be an admission of liability of any kind on
     the part of the party or parties hereby released.

Section 2. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.
- ------------------------------------------------------

     2.1. Employee will hold in confidence all trade secrets and confidential
     information of the Company that came into his knowledge during his
     employment with the Company and shall not disclose, publish or make use of
     at any time after the date Employee executes this Agreement such trade
     secrets or confidential information without the prior written consent of
     the Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     2.2. The terms and conditions of this Agreement and the accompanying Letter
     Agreement dated August 22, 2001 (the "Letter Agreement") are deemed to be
     confidential in nature and neither Employee nor his agents, employees,
     representatives, or attorneys will divulge any of the terms and conditions
     of these documents to anyone, other than legal, tax and financial advisors.

Section 3. Nondisparagement.
- ---------------------------------

     Employee will not disparage the Company, its subsidiaries, or its officers
or employees. The Company will not disparage Employee. "Disparagement" means a
negative oral statement to the media that can be accurately demonstrated in fact
to be attributable to Employee or the Company (as applicable) or negative
statements in publications that can be accurately demonstrated in fact to be
attributable to Employee or the Company (as applicable).

Section 4. Non Compete and Non Solicitation.
- --------------------------------------------

     4.1. NON COMPETE. Employee hereby covenants with the Company that he will
     not, without the prior written consent of the Chairman of the Board of
     Directors of The Coca-Cola Company, either directly or indirectly, for
     himself or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, company,
     partnership, corporation, business, group or other entity, engage, as an
     officer, director, owner, partner, member, joint venture, or in any other
     capacity, whether as an employee, independent contractor, consultant,
     advisor or sales representative:

                                       4
<PAGE>

          (a)  until October 31, 2003, in any business engaged in the
               manufacture, sale or distribution of Non-alcoholic Beverages; or

          (a)  [sic] until October 31, 2004, in performing services for PepsiCo
               or its subsidiaries (including but not limited to Pepsi Bottling
               Group).

               Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may:
               --------------------------------------------

               (i)  perform services for any company (other than PepsiCo or its
                    subsidiaries, including but not limited to Pepsi Bottling
                    Group), which has a Competing Business Segment, provided
                    that Employee does not perform services directly for such
                    Competing Business Segment, and provided Employee notifies
                    the Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola
                    Company of the nature of such services (to the extent
                    consistent with any confidentiality or non-disclosure
                    obligations Employee may have) in writing prior to beginning
                    such services;

               (ii) perform services for any entity which has an affiliation or
                    commercial relationship with the Company, provided Employee
                    notifies the Chairman of the Board of Directors of The
                    Coca-Cola Company of the nature of such services (to the
                    extent consistent with any confidentiality or non-
                    disclosure obligations Employee may have) in writing prior
                    to beginning such services; or

                                       5
<PAGE>
               (iii) have an ownership interest in any company engaged in the
                     manufacture, sale, or distribution of Non-alcoholic
                     Beverages, provided he is not performing services therefor.

               For  purposes hereof:
               --------------------

               "Competing Business Segment" means any segment of the business of
               a company which manufactures, sells or distributes Non-alcoholic
               Beverages; and "Non-Alcoholic Beverages" means ready to drink,
               shelf-stable carbonated soft drinks, coffee, tea, water or
               fruit-based beverages

     4.2. NON SOLICITATION. Employee hereby covenants with the Company that he
     will not, until October 31, 2004, without the prior written consent of the
     Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Coca-Cola Company, solicit or
     attempt to solicit for employment for or on behalf of any corporation,
     partnership, venture or other business entity any person who, on the last
     day of Employee's employment with the Company or within 12 months prior to
     that date, was employed by the Company or its direct or indirect
     subsidiaries as a manager or executive and with whom Employee had material
     contact during the course of his employment with the Company (whether or
     not such person would commit a breach of contract).

                                      6
<PAGE>

Section 5. Reasonable and Necessary Restrictions.
- -------------------------------------------------

     5.1 Employee acknowledges that during the course of his employment with the
     Company he has received or will receive and has had or will have access to
     confidential information and trade secrets of the Company, including but
     not limited to confidential and secret business and marketing plans,
     strategies, and studies, detailed client/customer lists and information
     relating to the operations and business requirements of those
     clients/customers and, accordingly, he is willing to enter into the
     covenants contained in this Agreement in order to provide the Company with
     what he considers to be reasonable protection for its interests.

     5.2 Employee acknowledges that the restrictions, prohibitions and other
     provisions hereof, are reasonable, fair and equitable in scope, terms and
     duration, are necessary to protect the legitimate business interests of the
     Company. Employee covenants that he will not challenge the enforceability
     of this Agreement nor will he raise any equitable defense to its
     enforcement.

Section 6.  Severability.
- -------------------------

     If fulfillment of any provision of this Agreement, at the time such
fulfillment shall be due, shall transcend the limit of validity prescribed by
law, then the obligation to be fulfilled shall be reduced to the limit of such
validity; and if any clause or provision contained in this Agreement operates or
would operate to invalidate this Agreement, in whole or in part, then such
clause or provision only shall be held ineffective, as though not herein
contained, and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain operative and in
full force and effect.
                                       7
<PAGE>

Section 7.  Indemnification.
- ----------------------------

     To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify
Employee (including the advancement of expenses) for any judgments, fines,
amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys fees,
incurred by Employee in connection with the defense of any lawsuit or other
claim for which the Employee is made a party by reason of his being an officer,
director or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or as a result of
Employee being a director, at the Company's request, of any company in which the
Company has an equity interest, including without limitation, any such matters
which arise after Employee's separation. Through December 31, 2001 and for at
least three years thereafter, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts
to maintain customary director and officer liability insurance covering Employee
for acts and omissions during the period he was employed by the Company.

Section 8. Dispute Resolution.
- ------------------------------

     All controversies, claims or disputes arising out of or related to this
Agreement or the Letter Agreement shall be settled in Atlanta, Georgia, under
the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect, and judgment
upon such award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court of
competent jurisdiction. The arbitrators fees shall be split equally among the
parties. In the event that the Company and Employee enter into arbitration,
based upon the Company's assertion that Employee has violated his
non-disparagement obligations in the Letter Agreement, the Company will
reimburse Employee for all reasonable attorneys fees expended during the course
of the arbitration.

                                       8
<PAGE>

Section 9. Governing Law.
- --------------------------

     This Agreement and the accompanying Letter Agreement are the complete
understanding between Employee and The Coca-Cola Company in respect of the
subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all prior agreements relating to
the same subject matter. Employee acknowledges that he has not relied upon any
representations, promises or agreements of any kind except those set forth
herein and in the accompanying Letter Agreement in signing this Agreement.

     Employee has read and reviewed this Agreement, fully understands it and
voluntarily signs same.

Date:  27/08/01

                                        /s/ Charles S. Frenette
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Charles S. Frenette


                                        The Coca-Cola Company

                                        /s/ James E. Chestnut
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        James E. Chestnut
                                        Executive Vice President




                                       9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.26
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>x10-26.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN TCCEC AND CHARLES S. FRENETTE
<TEXT>
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.26

                [LETTERHEAD OF THE COCA-COLA EXPORT CORPORATION]


                                August 22, 2001


Mr. Charles S. Frenette
London, England

Dear Charlie:

This letter outlines the terms under which you will separate from The Coca-Cola
Export Corporation ("Export Corporation"). You have resigned as President and
Chief Operating Officer, Europe, Eurasia and Africa Group effective immediately.
You will be entitled to your remuneration under your contract with the company
up to September 30, 2001 and will continue to receive all payments, allowances,
with benefits accrued up to that date under the International Service Program.

Your repatriation will be effective October 1, 2001. You should perform no work
in the United Kingdom after September 30, 2001

TAXES
- -----
You are entitled to a consultation with Ernst & Young, at no cost to you, to
discuss the implications of your repatriation and the companys tax equalization
program. Details regarding income taxes and tax equalization program have been
provided to you in a separate letter.

INTERNATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM
- -----------------------------
This section outlines the relocation provisions applying to your repatriation
under the International Service Program.

Relocation
- ----------
The company will pay the expense of packing and moving normal personal and
household effects as well as any normal import duties for you and your family
from the host country to the home country. It will also pay the storage
expenses, if necessary, in transit. The company will cover storage fees, long
term or in transit up to 60 days after your household goods have arrived in the
home country. The company will also pay normal insurance coverage on household
effects while in transit. Please refer to the RELOCATION section of THE
INTERNATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM GUIDE for further details. Since your family may
remain in London during the school year, the relocation provisions will be
available to you though August 31, 2002.

You will be provided a temporary living allowance for the transition back to the
United States of $8,950 net of tax, subject to U.S. Social Security.

<PAGE>

Mr. Charles S. Frenette
London, England
August 22, 2001
Page 2


Allowances
- ----------
All payments in this section are paid net of tax, subject to U. S. Social
Security. Relocation allowances will be paid following receipt of your signed
letter upon your repatriation date or after submission of documentation as
appropriate. You will be eligible for the following Repatriation Allowances:

     - International Service Premium: $5,000
     - Resettlement Allowance: $6,000
     - Voltage Allowance: $2,000 with an additional $3,000 if two or more major
       appliances must be purchased
     - Car Purchase Assistance: $5,700 for primary car and $4,100 for secondary
       car (documentation of purchase is needed to receive assistance)
     - Car Disposal Assistance (documentation of purchase and sale is needed to
       receive assistance).

Annual Leave
- ------------
Any unused annual leave account balance at the date of repatriation will be
forfeited. Your annual leave days will be pro-rated and the unused and accrued
portion will be liquidated in accordance with the International Service Program
Guide.

Citibank
- --------
If you participate in the Citibank PBOE program, the company will continue to
pay for the service fees associated with Citibank for 60 days following your
assignment termination date. After this time, you will be liable for any fees
associated with Citibank, should you decide to maintain this account.

Other
- -----
Should the company's policies and procedures affecting International Service
Associates generally change, such changes will apply to you. Please feel free to
contact Pat O'Neil at 404-676-7519 or Anne Fletcher at 404-676-2656 if you have
any questions regarding the terms and conditions.

                                        Sincerely,


                                        /s/ James E.Chestnut
                                        --------------------------
                                        James E. Chestnut

ACKNOWLEDGED:

/s/ Charles S. Frenette                      29/08/01
- -------------------------               -----------------
Charles S. Frenette                             Date


cc:     Ms. Coretha Rushing
        Ms. Pat O'Neil
        Ms. Anne Fletcher

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.27
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>x10-27.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN KO AND BRIAN G. DYSON
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.27

                      [LETTERHEAD OF THE COCA-C0LA COMPANY


                               September 17, 2001


Mr. Brian G. Dyson
Atlanta, Georgia

Dear Brian:

It is my pleasure to confirm our discussion related to your employment and pay
as Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer. The elements of your compensation
noted below have been approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors.

     - The term of your employment will be two years, beginning August 1, 2001
       and ending July 31, 2003, and may be extended only by a further agreement
       in writing signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of The
       Coca-Cola Company.

     - Your base salary will be $83,333.33 on a monthly basis beginning August
       1, 2001. The monthly amount of $83,333.33, when annualized is $1,000,000.
       Your first paycheck will be offset by the payments you or Chatham
       International Corporation may have received after July 31, 2001 under the
       Consulting Agreement the Company has with Chatham International
       Corporation.

     - The Consulting Agreement entered into between The Coca-Cola Company and
       Chatham International Corporation on May 1, 2001 is terminated effective
       July 31, 2001, and the Company owes no further consulting payments to you
       or Chatham International Corporation under that Agreement.

     - You will be eligible to participate in the Company's annual incentive
       program. Your incentive target is 150% of your base salary. The range for
       the incentive award, based on a target of 150%, would be 0% to 150% of
       target ($0 to $2,250,000). Your first incentive award will be pro-rated
       based on the number of months you participate and will be paid annually
       in the first quarter after the close of the calendar year. Your
       participation is contingent upon the Company's performance as well as
       your individual performance.

     - A recommendation for a special one-time stock option grant of 900,000
       options will be made for you at the next meeting of the Stock Option
       Subcommittee of the Company's Board of Directors following your
       employment. This special one-time stock option award will have a
       seven-year option term and 100% vesting on the earlier of 1) two years
       from the grant date or 2) the date of your resumption of retirement
       status from The Coca-Cola Company provided that the options have been
       held for at least twelve months from the date of grant, or 3) as
       otherwise provided in the 1999 Stock Option Plan.

     - You will be eligible to participate in the Financial Planning and
       Counseling Program offered to executives. The Program provides
       reimbursement of $10,000 in financial planning and counseling services
       during the first calendar year of participation and $4,500 each following
       year for ongoing planning and counseling. This benefit will be subject to
       all applicable taxes. In addition, you will receive a sum of $10,000 to
       cover incidental expenses related to your reemployment.

     - In accordance with Company policy, you will be eligible for Company-paid
       membership and reimbursement of dues associated with one country club,
       social club or similar club as long as the club use is for ordinary and
       necessary business purposes. You will be required to track and report any
       personal use of the Company-paid club membership and dues. Club use that
       is personal is considered taxable income.

     - With regard to the fractional ownership of the Hawker 800 XP aircraft,
       during the term of your employment with the Company, the Company will
       lease the aircraft at a rate of $6,778.13 per month to be used in the
       Company's aviation fleet. The Management Agreement with Executive Jet
       Aviation, Inc. will be assigned to the Company during the term of your
       employment (contingent upon consent of Executive Jet Aviation, Inc.),
       with the fees due thereunder paid by the Company.

     - During the term of your employment, you will be provided an automobile
       from the Company's existing automobile fleet as well as a driver.

     - In accordance with the terms of the Employee Retirement Plan of The
       Coca-Cola Company, your ERP benefit of $811 per month will be suspended
       as of the effective date of your rehire with the Company. You will
       receive a separate letter outlining the effect of your reemployment on
       your pension payments.

     - You will continue to receive your monthly payments under The Coca-Cola
       Company Supplemental Benefit Plan, as well as your CCE qualified and non
       qualified Plan benefits, during your reemployment.

     - You will continue to receive the payments from the Compensation Deferral
       and Investment Program during the term of your reemployment.

     - As part of your return to work as an active employee, you will have the
       same medical plan options and other employee benefit plan elections as
       other active employees. You and your spouse will be eligible for the
       options available to employees in Atlanta: SelectCare I and II, United
       HealthCare HMO, Prudential HMO or Cigna HMO and the Supplemental Plan.
       Upon retirement in the future, you will revert back to the Base Plan with
       Medicare primary. A package of information for you to make these and
       other benefit elections will be provided to you shortly.

     - This letter constitutes the complete understanding between you and the
       Company and supersedes any previous agreement, written or oral, relating
       to the subject matter of this letter. Any dispute related to this letter
       shall be resolved by arbitration at Atlanta, Georgia pursuant to the
       Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.

As we discussed, I believe you have a great deal to contribute to The Coca-Cola
Company and that you will be a valuable addition to my team and the Company.

Please signify your acceptance of such employment by signing as indicated below.


                                        Sincerely,


                                        /s/ Douglas N. Daft







ACCEPTED:  /S/ BRIAN G. DYSON
          -----------------------------------
           Brian G. Dyson
           Individually, and as President of Chatham International Corporation

DATE:      9-18-01



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.28
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>x10-28.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN KO AND JAMES E. CHESTNUT
<TEXT>
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.28

                                October 17, 2001


James E. Chestnut
Atlanta, Georgia

Dear James:

     This  letter  confirms  the  understanding  that  we have  concerning  your
upcoming  assignment as President,  Pacific Rim, based in Tokyo, Japan. You will
receive a letter of understanding  outlining the terms of your assignment.  This
letter  covers  additional  items for your records.

Salary/Incentive/Long  Term Incentive/Stock Options

     While  you  are on  assignment,  your  base  salary,  and the  targets  and
opportunities for future awards of annual and long-term incentive, stock options
and  restricted  stock awards  shall not be less than your  current  targets and
opportunities.

Benefits

     You will continue your participation in the Key Executive  Retirement Plan.
You will continue to be eligible for the Financial Planning program,  subject to
applicable tax withholdings.

International Service Program

1.   The Company will reimburse you, net of taxes for the out-of-pocket expenses
     you have incurred by paying and forfeiting  partial  tuition for the 2001 -
     2002 school year in Atlanta.

2.   The Company will  reimburse  you for Home Sale  Assistance to cover general
     expenses  associated  with  selling  your home.  The Company will waive the
     stated  maximum for this coverage and will cover up to 7% of the documented
     sales price,  net of taxes for you. If you are unsuccessful in selling your
     property, Home Purchase Buyout will be available.

3.   At the  end of  your  assignment,  if  that  occurs  prior  to  your  son's
     completion of high school, you and your family will continue to be provided
     schooling and housing and other appropriate  expatriate  provisions through
     the end of the school year at the host location.

<PAGE>


Page  2
October 17, 2001




     4.  At the  end of  your  assignment,  Home  Purchase  Assistance  will  be
provided.

     5. At the end of your  assignment,  if  repatriation  without a job occurs,
salary  continuation  will be provided for twelve months.  Any severance pay for
which you are eligible will be offset by the salary continuation.

 .

                                        Sincerely,



                                        /s/ Douglas N. Daft








EXHIBIT A

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.29
<SEQUENCE>17
<FILENAME>x10-29.txt
<DESCRIPTION>COMPENSATION COMMITTEE RESOLUTIONS, RE. SANDY ALLAN
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.29


                             COMPENSATION COMMITTEE

                              Mexico City, Mexico
                                October 17, 2001


Proposed  resolution  approving  exceptions  to the  International  Service
Program for an officer



RESOLVED, that A.R.C. (Sandy) Allan, who is on assignment in London, is covered
by the provisions, as an expatriate, of the International Service Program;

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Committee agrees, in light of the dual nature of Mr.
Allan's role, to provide certain exception to policy related to that Program;

FURTHER RESOLVED, that the nature of the exceptions are as follows:

     1)   Mr. Allan and his family will continue to be provided schooling and
          housing and other appropriate expatriate provisions through the end of
          the school year in Hong Kong; and

     2)   Mr. Allan will be provided a Housing and Utilities Allowance less
          Shelter Deduction for his primary residence in his new location;


FURTHER RESOLVED, that the appropriate officers for the Company be, and each of
them hereby is, authorized to take any and all action which they or any of them
deem necessary, convenient or appropriate in order to effectuate the purpose of
the proceeding resolution.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.30
<SEQUENCE>18
<FILENAME>x10-30.txt
<DESCRIPTION>DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN, ADOPTED 12-20-02
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.30


                             THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

                           DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

          WHEREAS, the Company (as hereinafter defined) has set forth its desire
to establish The Coca-Cola Company Deferred Compensation Plan to provide (i) a
select group of management or highly compensated employees with a capital
accumulation opportunity by deferring compensation on a pre-tax basis and (ii)
the Company with a method of rewarding and retaining its highly compensated
executives and employees.

          NOW, THEREFORE, as of the effective date set forth herein, this Plan
(as hereinafter defined) is hereby adopted to read as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                              TITLE AND DEFINITIONS

          1.1 Definitions.

          Capitalized terms used in this Plan, shall have the meanings specified
below.

          (a) "Account" or "Accounts" shall mean all of such subaccounts as are
specifically authorized for inclusion in this Plan.

          (b) "Base Salary" shall mean a Participant's annual base salary,
including any salary continuation, excluding bonus, commissions, incentive and
all other remuneration for services rendered to the Company and prior to
reduction for any salary contributions to a plan established pursuant to Section
125 of the Code or qualified pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Code.

          (c) "Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" shall mean the person or persons,
including a trustee, personal representative or other fiduciary, last designated
in writing by a Participant in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee to receive the benefits specified hereunder in the event of the
Participant's death. No beneficiary designation shall become effective until it
is filed with the Committee. Any designation shall be revocable at any time
through a written instrument filed by the Participant with the Committee with or
without the consent of the previous Beneficiary. No designation of a Beneficiary
other than the Participant's spouse shall be valid unless consented to in
writing by such spouse. If there is no such designation or if there is no
surviving designated Beneficiary, then the Participant's surviving spouse shall
be the Beneficiary. If there is no surviving spouse to receive any benefits
payable in accordance with the preceding sentence, the duly appointed and
currently acting personal representative of the Participant's estate (which
shall include either the Participant's probate estate or living trust) shall be
the Beneficiary. In any case where there is no such personal representative of
the Participant's estate duly appointed and acting in that capacity within 90
days after the Participant's death (or such extended period as the Committee
determines is reasonably necessary to allow such personal


<PAGE>

representative to be appointed, but not to exceed 180 days after the
Participant's death), then Beneficiary shall mean the person or persons who can
verify by affidavit or court order to the satisfaction of the Committee that
they are legally entitled to receive the benefits specified hereunder. In the
event any amount is payable under the Plan to a minor, payment shall not be made
to the minor, but instead be paid to such minor's legal guardian duly appointed
and currently acting to hold the funds for such minor. If no guardian of the
estate for the minor is duly appointed and currently acting within 60 days after
the date the amount becomes payable, payment shall be deposited with the court
having jurisdiction over the estate of the minor. Payment by Company pursuant to
any unrevoked Beneficiary designation, or to the Participant's estate if no such
designation exists, of all benefits owed hereunder shall terminate any and all
liability of Company.

          (d) "Board of Directors" or "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors
of The Coca-Cola Company.

          (e) "Bonuses" shall mean the bonuses earned as of the last day of the
Plan Year pursuant to any bonus plan or program approved by the Committee,
provided a Participant is in the employ of the Company on the last day of the
Plan Year.

          (f) "Change of Control" shall mean a change in control of a nature
that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A
of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act as in effect on January 1, 2002,
provided that such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred at such
time as (i) any "person" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of
the Exchange Act), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule
13d-3 under the Exchange Act as in effect on January 1, 2002) directly or
indirectly, of securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power
for election of directors of the then outstanding securities of the Company or
any successor of the Company; (ii) during any period of two (2) consecutive
years or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the
Board of Directors of the Company cease, for any reason, to constitute at least
a majority of the Board of Directors, unless the election or nomination for
election of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of
the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the
period; (iii) the share owners of the Company approve any merger or
consolidation as a result of which the Stock shall be changed, converted or
exchanged (other than a merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) or
any liquidation of the Company or any sale or other disposition of 50% or more
of the assets or earning power of the Company; or (iv) the share owners of the
Company approve any merger or consolidation to which the Company is a party as a
result of which the persons who were share owners of the Company immediately
prior to the effective date of the merger or consolidation shall have beneficial
ownership of less than 50% of the combined voting power for election of
directors of the surviving corporation following the effective date of such
merger or consolidation; provided, however, that no Change in Control shall be
deemed to have occurred if, prior to such times as a Change in Control would
otherwise be deemed to have occurred, the Board of Directors determines
otherwise.

          (g) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.


                                     -2-
<PAGE>

           (h) "Committee" shall mean the Management Committee appointed by the
Compensation Committee to administer the Plan in accordance with Article VII.

          (i) "Company" shall mean The Coca-Cola Company, a Delaware
corporation.


         (j) "Company Discretionary Contribution Amount" shall mean such
discretionary amount, if any, contributed by the Company for a Participant for a
Plan Year. Such amount may differ from Participant to Participant both in
amount, including no contribution and as a percentage of Compensation.

          (k) "Company Matching Contribution Amount" shall mean such amount
contributed by the Company, if any, for a Participant for a Plan Year. Such
amount may differ from Participant to Participant.

          (l) "Company Discretionary Contribution Subaccount" shall mean the
bookkeeping account maintained by the Company for each Participant that is
credited with an amount equal to (i) the Company Discretionary Contribution
Amount, if any, paid by the Company and (ii) earnings and losses pursuant to
Section 4.1.

          (m) "Company Matching Contribution Subaccount" shall mean the
bookkeeping account maintained by the Company for each Participant that is
credited with the number of Stock Units equal to the Company Matching
Contribution Amount, if any, and the Dividend Equivalent, if any, paid by the
Company.

          (n) "Compensation" shall mean Base Salary and Bonus.

          (o) "Compensation Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors of the Company or any subcommittee thereof.

          (p) "Compensation Deferral Subaccount" shall mean the bookkeeping
account maintained by the Committee for each Participant that is credited with
amounts equal to (i) the portion of the Participant's Compensation that he or
she elects to defer, and (ii) earnings and losses attributable thereto pursuant
to Section 4.1.

          (q) "Designated Employees" shall mean Eligible Employees designated by
the Committee as eligible to defer Stock Option Gains and Restricted Stock
Awards.

          (r) "Disability" shall mean that the Participant meets the definition
of "disabled" under the terms of The Coca-Cola Company Long Term Disability
Income Plan in effect on the date in question, whether or not such Participant
is covered by such plan.

          (s) "Distributable Amount" shall mean the vested balance in the
Participant's Accounts subject to distribution in a given Plan Year.

          (t) "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean the amount of cash dividends or
other cash distributions paid by the Company on that number of shares equal to
the number of Stock Units credited to a Participant's Stock Unit Subaccount and
Company Matching Contribution Subaccount as of the applicable record date for
the dividend or other distribution, which amount


                                      -3-
<PAGE>

shall be credited in the form of additional Stock Units to the Participant's
Stock Unit Subaccount and Company Matching Contribution Subaccount.

          (u) "Early Distribution" shall mean an election by a Participant in
accordance with Section 6.2(d) to receive a withdrawal of amounts from his or
her Compensation Deferral Subaccount and any vested Company Discretionary
Contribution Subaccount prior to the time at which such Participant would
otherwise be entitled to such amounts.

          (v) "Effective Date" shall be June 1, 2002.

          (w) "Eligible Employee" shall mean a select group of management and/or
highly compensated employees specifically selected by the Management Committee
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article II.

          (x) "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended.

          (y) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

          (z) "Fund" or "Funds" shall mean, one or more of the investment funds
selected by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.2(a).

          (aa) "Hardship Distribution" shall mean a severe financial hardship to
the Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of
the Participant or of his or her Dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the
Code), loss of a Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar or
extraordinary and unforseeable circumstances arising as a result of events
beyond the control of the Participant.

          (bb) "Initial Election Period" shall mean the time period associated
with the first enrollment period of the Plan or the first enrollment period of
an eligible participant.

          (cc) "Investment Rate" shall mean, for each Fund, an amount equal to
the net gain or loss on the assets of such Fund during each month.

          (dd) "Participant" shall mean any Eligible Employee who becomes a
Participant in this Plan in accordance with Article II.

          (ee) "Participating Subsidiary" means a subsidiary of the Company
which the Committee has designated as such and whose employees are eligible to
participate in the Plan; provided that such employee is an Eligible Employee.

          (ff) "Payment Date" shall mean:

                  (i) With respect to Distributable Amounts payable in a lump
sum, as soon as practicable following the end of the calendar quarter in which
termination occurs; and

                  (ii) With respect to Distributable Amounts payable in annual
installments, each February following the Plan Year in which termination occurs,
beginning with
                                      -4-
<PAGE>

the year following termination in which the Participant has elected to begin
receiving distributions.

          (gg) "Plan" shall mean The Coca-Cola Company Deferred Compensation
Plan.

          (hh) "Plan Year" shall mean January 1 to December 31 of each year.

          (ii) "Related Company" shall mean any entity in which the Company
owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of the outstanding voting stock or
capital at the relevant time.

          (jj) "Restricted Stock" shall mean shares of Stock issued under the
Restricted Stock Plan which are subject to forfeiture based upon non-compliance
with certain enumerated criteria.

          (kk) "Restricted Stock Award" shall mean any award of Restricted Stock
under the Restricted Stock Plan.

          (ll) "Restricted Stock Plan" shall mean the 1989 Restricted Stock
Award Plan of The Coca-Cola Company.

          (mm) "Retirement" shall mean any time that is at least five (5) years
prior to the earliest permissible retirement date under The Coca-Cola Company
Employee Retirement Plan.

          (nn) "Scheduled Withdrawal Date" shall mean the distribution date
elected by the Participant for a withdrawal of amounts from such Accounts
deferred in a given Plan Year, and earnings and losses attributable thereto, as
set forth on the election form for such Plan Year.

          (oo) "Stock" shall mean the common stock, $.25 par value of The
Coca-Cola Company.

          (pp) "Stock Unit" means a unit of value, equal at any relevant time to
the value of a share of Stock or Restricted Stock, as applicable, established by
the Committee as a means of measuring value of the Stock-related portion of an
Account under the Plan.

          (qq) "Stock Unit Subaccount" means the bookkeeping account maintained
by the Committee on behalf of each Participant who is credited with Stock Units
and Dividend Equivalents thereon pursuant to Sections 4.2 and 4.3.

          (rr) "Stock Option Gain" shall mean the gains on a Designated
Employee's stock options that have been granted by the Company and designated as
eligible for deferral under the Plan by the Committee pursuant to Section
3.1(c). With respect to any options granted to Designated Employees that are
made subject to a Stock Option Gain deferral election, the gains on such options
shall be determined through a deemed sale of related shares of the underlying
shares net of the exercise price of the options.



                                      -5-
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE II

                                 PARTICIPATION

     2.1 Determination of Eligible Employee

     The Committee shall, from time to time, determine which employees are
Eligible Employees under the Plan.

     2.2 Enrollment

     An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant in the Plan by electing to
make deferrals in accordance with Section 3.1, in accordance with such
procedures as may be established from time to time by the Committee. An
individual who, at any time, ceases to be an Eligible Employee, as determined in
the sole discretion of the Committee, other than an Eligible Employee who (i)
becomes employed by a Related Company, which is not a Participating Subsidiary
or (ii) is transferred to an international assignment, shall continue to be
eligible to make deferrals until the end of the Plan Year in which the employee
ceases to be an Eligible Employee, and no future deferrals will be allowed until
such time as the individual again becomes an Eligible Employee. In such case,
the individual may remain a Participant in the Plan with respect to amounts
already deferred.

     2.3 Transferred Employees

     An Eligible Employee who (i) becomes employed by a Related Company, which
is not a Participating Subsidiary or (ii) is transferred to an international
assignment, shall not be eligible to make any further deferrals under the Plan,
however, such individual shall remain a participant in the Plan with respect to
amounts already deferred. Any deferrals for the current Plan Year shall
terminate as of the date of transfer.

     2.4 Amendment of Eligibility Criteria

     The Committee may, in its discretion, change the criteria for eligibility
to comply with all applicable laws relating to salary grade and compensation
levels; provided, however, that no change in the criteria for eligibility of any
officer of the Company shall be effected unless such changes are (i) within
parameters established by the Compensation Committee or (ii) approved by the
Compensation Committee.


                                      -6-
<PAGE>


                                  ARTICLE III

                               DEFERRAL ELECTIONS

     3.1  Elections to Defer Compensation.

          (a) Initial Election Period.  Subject to the provisions of Article II,
each  Eligible  Employee  may  elect to defer  Compensation,  earned  after  the
election  period,  by filing with the Committee an election that conforms to the
requirements of this Section 3.1, on a form provided by the Committee,  no later
than the last day of his or her Initial Election Period.

          (b) Deferral of Base Salary and Bonus. The amount of Base Salary and
Bonus which an Eligible Employee may elect to defer is such Base Salary and
Bonus earned on or after the time at which the Eligible Employee elects to defer
in accordance with Sections 1.1(y) and 3.1(a). The Eligible Employee may elect
to defer up to 80% of the Eligible Employee's Base Salary and up to 100% of the
Eligible Employee's Bonus, provided that the total amount deferred by a
Participant shall be limited in any calendar year, if necessary, to satisfy
Social Security Tax (including Medicare), income tax withholding for
compensation that cannot be deferred and employee benefit plan withholding
requirements as determined in the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee.
The minimum contribution from Base Salary which must be made in any Plan Year by
an Eligible Employee shall not be less than $5,000. The minimum contribution
from the Bonus which must be made in any Plan Year by an Eligible Employee shall
not be less than 10% of such Bonus.

          (c) Deferral of Stock Option Gain.

          A Designated Employee may elect to defer all or any portion of Stock
Option Gains attributable to nonqualified stock options and receive a credit of
Stock Units. Any Deferral election must occur in a time period designated by the
Committee from time to time and in accordance with Sections 3.1(e) and 3.1(f),
below. The Designated Employee must attest to ownership Stock equal in value to
the total amount of the option exercise price and the Stock used for this
purpose must have been held by the Designated Employee for at least the period
of time required by the applicable Stock Option Plan. All such deferrals shall
be invested and held only in Stock Units as provided in Section 3.2(b).

          (d) Deferral of Restricted Stock. A Designated Employee may elect to
defer all or any portion of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to a Restricted
Stock Award and receive a credit of Stock Units. Any such deferral election must
be made in a time period designated by the Committee from time to time and in
accordance with Sections 3.1(e) and (f). All such deferrals shall be invested
and held in Stock Units as provided in Section 3.2(b).

          (e) Duration of Deferral Election. An Eligible Employee's election to
defer Compensation for any Plan Year is to be effective with respect to: (i)
Base Salary and Bonus earned after such deferral election is processed, (ii)
Stock Option Gains realized after such election is processed and (iii)
Restricted Stock vesting at least one year after such election is processed.
Elections to defer Base Salary and Bonus are


                                      -7-
<PAGE>

irrevocable for the Plan Year and cease to be effective at the end of the Plan
Year. A Participant may increase, decrease or terminate a deferral election with
respect to Base Salary and Bonus for any subsequent Plan Year by filing a new
election by a date determined by the Committee prior to the beginning of the
next Plan Year, which election shall be effective on the first day of the next
following Plan Year. Elections to defer Stock Option Gains and Restricted Stock
are irrevocable.

          (f) Elections other than Elections during the Initial Election Period.
Subject to the limitations of Sections 3.1(b), 3.1(c) and 3.1(d) above, an
Eligible Employee may elect to defer Compensation and a Designated Employee may
elect to defer Compensation, Stock Option Gains and Restricted Stock by filing
an election on a form provided by the Committee, or, if allowed by the
Committee, via voice response, internet or other approved technology. Such
election must be filed, if permitted, or, made electronically by a date
determined by the Committee and will be effective with the first pay period of
the following Plan Year. An election to defer Compensation, Stock Option Gains
and Restricted Stock must be filed, if permitted, or, made electronically in a
timely manner in accordance with Section 3.1(e).


    3.2  Deemed Investment Elections.

          (a) Deferrals of Base Salary and, Bonus.

               (i) At the time of making the deferral elections described in
Section 3.1(b), the Participant shall designate, on a form provided by the
Committee, or, if allowed by the Committee, via voice response, internet or
other approved technology, the types of investment funds in which the
Participant's Compensation Deferral Subaccount will be deemed to be invested for
purposes of determining the amount of earnings or losses to be credited to that
subaccount. In making the designation pursuant to this Section 3.2, the
Participant may specify that all or any multiple of his or her Compensation
Deferral Subaccount be deemed to be invested, in whole percentage increments, in
one or more of the types of investment funds provided under the Plan as
communicated from time to time by the Committee. Effective as of the first
Business Day of the following calendar month, a Participant may change the
designation made under this Section 3.2 by filing an election, on a form
provided by the Committee, or, if allowed by the Committee, via voice response,
internet or other approved technology, by the 25th day of such month. If a
Participant fails to elect a type of Fund under this Section 3.2, he or she
shall be deemed to have elected the Money Market type of investment fund.

               (ii) Although the Participant may designate the specific fund
within each type of investment, the Committee shall not be bound by such
designation. The Committee shall select from time to time, in its sole and
absolute discretion, commercially available investments of each of the types
communicated by the Committee to the Participant pursuant to


                                      -8-
<PAGE>

Section 3.2(a)(i). The Investment Rate of each such commercially available
investment fund shall be used to determine the amount of earnings or losses to
be credited to Participant's Compensation Deferral Subaccount under Article IV.

          (b) Deferrals of Stock Option Gains and Restricted Stock Awards. At
the time Stock Option Gains are realized and Restricted Stock vests, a
Participant's Stock Unit Subaccount shall be credited with the number of Stock
Units equal in number to the amount of Stock Option Gains and shares of
Restricted Stock.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                               DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS

     4.1  Compensation Deferral Subaccount.

          The Committee shall establish and maintain a Compensation Deferral
Subaccount for each Participant under the Plan. Each Participant's Compensation
Deferral Subaccount shall be further divided into separate subaccounts
("investment fund subaccounts"), each of which corresponds to an investment fund
elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 3.2(a). A Participant's
Compensation Deferral Subaccount shall be credited as follows:

          (a) On the second business day after amounts are withheld and/or
deferred from a Participant's Compensation, the Committee shall credit the
investment fund subaccounts of the Participant's Compensation Deferral
Subaccount with an amount equal to Compensation deferred by the Participant in
accordance with the Participant's election under Section 3.2(a);

          (b) Each business day, each investment fund subaccount of a
Participant's Compensation Deferral Subaccount shall be credited with earnings
or losses in an amount equal to that determined by multiplying the balance
credited to such investment fund subaccount as of the prior day plus
contributions credited that day to the investment fund subaccount by the
Investment Rate for the corresponding Fund selected by the Company pursuant to
Section 3.2(a)(ii).

          (c) In the event that a Participant elects for a given Plan Year's
deferral of Compensation to have a Scheduled Withdrawal Date, all amounts
attributed to the deferral of Compensation for such Plan Year shall be accounted
for in a manner which allows separate accounting for the deferral of
Compensation and investment gains and losses associated with such Plan Year's
deferral of Compensation.

     4.2  Company Discretionary Contribution Subaccount.

          The Committee shall establish and maintain a Company Discretionary
Contribution Subaccount for each Participant under the Plan. Each Participant's
Company Discretionary Contribution Subaccount shall be further divided into
separate subaccounts, each of which corresponds to a Fund elected by the
Participant pursuant to Section 3.2(a). A Participant's Company Discretionary
Contribution Subaccount shall be credited as follows:


                                      -9-
<PAGE>


          (a) The Committee shall credit the investment fund subaccounts of the
Participant's Company Discretionary Contribution Subaccount with an amount equal
to the Company Discretionary Contribution Amount, if any, applicable to that
Participant two business days after such amount is contributed;

          (b) Each business day, each investment fund subaccount of a
Participant's Company Discretionary Contribution Account shall be credited with
earnings or losses in an amount equal to that determined by multiplying the
balance credited to such investment fund subaccount as of the prior day plus
contributions credited that day to the investment fund subaccount by the
Investment Rate for the corresponding Fund, selected by the Company pursuant to
Section 3.2(a)(ii).

     4.3  Company Matching Contribution Subaccount.

          The Committee shall establish and maintain a Company Matching
Contribution Subaccount for each Participant eligible to defer Restricted Stock
and/or Stock Option Gains under the Plan. A Participant's Company Matching
Contribution Subaccount shall be credited as follows:

          (a) The Committee shall credit the investment fund subaccounts of the
Participant's Company Matching Contribution Subaccount with an amount equal to
the Company Discretionary Contribution Amount, if any, applicable to that
Participant two business days after such amount is contributed;

          (b) Each business day, each investment fund subaccount of a
Participant's Company Matching Contribution Account shall be credited with
earnings or losses in an amount equal to that determined by multiplying the
balance credited to such investment fund subaccount as of the prior day plus
contributions credited that day to the investment fund subaccount by the



Investment Rate for the corresponding Fund, selected by the Company pursuant to
Section 3.2(a)(ii).

                                   ARTICLE V

                                    VESTING

     5.1  Vesting

     A Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Compensation Deferral
Subaccount and Stock Unit Subaccount. A Participant shall be vested in
accordance with any schedule that the Committee may establish with respect to
his or her Company Discretionary Contribution Amount, and Company Matching
Contribution Subaccount, if any.

     5.2  Vesting Upon Death/Change of Control


                                      -10-
<PAGE>

          Upon death of a Participant, or in the event of a Change of Control,
the Participant shall be 100% vested in his or her Company Discretionary
Contribution Subaccount and Company Matching Contribution Subaccount.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                                 DISTRIBUTIONS

     6.1  Form of Payment.

     Distributions of Compensation Deferral Subaccounts and Company
Discretionary Contribution Subaccounts, and earnings thereon, shall be made in
cash. Distributions of Stock Unit Subaccounts and Company Matching Contribution
Subaccounts shall be made in Stock, with one share distributed for each Stock
Unit. All fractional shares of Stock shall be payable in cash. All unpaid
Account balances shall be distributed in a lump sum in the February following a
Participant's 85th birthday.

     6.2  Distributions of Accounts.

          (a) Distribution Due to Termination on Account of Retirement. In the
case of a Participant who terminates employment with the Company due to
Retirement, and has an Account balance of $50,000 or more, the Distributable
Amount shall be paid to the Participant in substantially equal annual
installments over ten (10) years beginning on the Participant's Payment Date. An
optional form of benefit may be elected by the Participant, on a form provided
by the Company, or, if permitted by the Committee, via voice response, internet
or other approval technology, during an election period, from among the
following:

               (i) A lump sum distribution on the Participant's Payment Date;


               (ii) Substantially equal annual installments over five (5) years
beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               (iii) Substantially equal annual installments over fifteen (15)
years beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               A Participant may modify the form of benefit that he or she has
previously elected, provided such modification occurs at least one (1) year
before the Participant terminates employment with Company due to Retirement.

               A Participant may delay the Payment Date for any Plan Year to a
date after his or her Retirement, but in no event later than the date he or she
turns age 85, provided such extension occurs at least one year before the
Participant's Retirement Date. The Participant may delay his or her Payment Date
only once.



                                      -11-
<PAGE>


               In the case of a Participant who has an Account of less than
$50,000, the Distributable Amount shall be paid to the Participant (and after
his or her death to his or her Beneficiary) in a lump sum distribution on the
Participant's Payment Date.

               If any distribution from the Plan shall have the effect of
reducing disability benefits receivable by the Participant under any other
policy, plan, program or arrangement, such distribution may be postponed, in the
sole discretion of the Committee, upon application by the Participant. The
Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with earnings pursuant to
Article IV of the Plan until all amounts credited to his or her Account under
the Plan have been distributed.

          (b) Distribution Due to Termination on Account of Disability. In the
case of a Participant who terminates employment with the Company due to
Disability, the Account Balance shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum.
In the case of such a Participant whose Account balance is $50,000 or more, an
optional form of benefit may be elected by the Participant, on a form provided
by the Company, or, if permitted by the Committee, via voice response, internet
or other approved technology, during a Participant's first election period, from
among the following:

               (i) Substantially equal annual installments over five (5) years
beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               (ii) Substantially equal annual installments over ten (10) years
beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               (iii) Substantially equal annual installments over fifteen (15)
years beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

          If any  distribution  from the Plan shall have the effect of  reducing
disability benefits receivable by the Participant under any other policy,  plan,
program  or  arrangement,  such  distribution  may be  postponed,  in  the  sole
discretion of the Committee,  upon  application by the Participant.  However,  a
Participant  may not  modify  the form or timing of the  benefit  that he or she
previously elected, during the initial election period.

               The Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with
earnings pursuant to Article IV of the Plan until all amounts credited to his or
her Account under the Plan have been distributed.

                                      -12-
<PAGE>


          (c) Distribution Due to Voluntary Termination or
Termination-For-Cause. In the case of a Participant who voluntarily terminates
his or her employment from the Company or is terminated for-cause (as determined
in the sole discretion of the Committee) from his or her employment with the
Company, the Participant's Account balance shall be paid to the Participant in a
lump sum beginning on the Participant's Payment Date.

          (d) Distribution Due to Involuntary Termination. In the case of a
Participant who is involuntarily terminated from his or her employment with the
Company other than for cause, as determined in the sole discretion of the
Committee, the Participant's Account balance shall be paid to the Participant in
a lump sum on the Participant's Payment Date. In the case of such a Participant
whose Account balance is $50,000 or more, an optional form of benefit may be
elected by the Participant, on a form provided by the Committee, or, if
permitted by the Committee, via voice response, internet or other approved
technology during an election period, from among the following:

               (i) Substantially equal annual installments over five (5) years
beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               (ii) Substantially equal annual installments over ten (10) years
beginning on the Participant's Payment Date;

               The Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with
earnings pursuant to Article IV of the Plan until all amounts credited to his or
her Account under the Plan have been distributed.

               A Participant may not modify the form of timing of the benefit
that he or she previously elected during the Initial Election Period

          (e) Distribution With Scheduled Withdrawal Date.

          In the case of a Participant who has elected a Scheduled Withdrawal,
such Participant shall receive his or her Distributable Amount in a lump sum,
but only with respect to those deferrals of Compensation, vested Company
Discretionary Contribution Amounts and vested Company Matching Contribution
Amounts and earnings or losses attributable thereto, as shall have been elected
by the Participant to be subject to the Scheduled Withdrawal Date in accordance
with Section 1.2(nn) of the Plan.

                                      -13-
<PAGE>


          In the case of a Participant who has a Distributable Amount of $25,000
or more, the Participant may elect to receive his or her Distributable Amount on
a form provided by the Committee, or, if permitted by the Committee, via voice
response, internet or other approved technology during an election period, in
substantially equal annual installments over two (2) to five (5) years. A
Participant may modify the form of benefit that he or she has previously
elected, provided such modification occurs at least one (1) year before the
Scheduled Withdrawal Date.

          A Participant's Scheduled Withdrawal Date in a given Plan Year may be
no earlier than three years from the last day of the Plan Year for which the
deferrals of Compensation, Stock Option Gains, Restricted Stock, Company
Discretionary Contribution Amounts and Company Matching Contribution Amounts are
made, or such other time as may be permitted by applicable Treasury Regulations
or Internal Revenue Service guidance. A Participant may extend the Scheduled
Withdrawal Date for any Plan Year, provided such extension occurs at least one
year before the Scheduled Withdrawal Date and is for a period of not less than
two years from the Scheduled Withdrawal Date. The Participant may modify any
Scheduled Withdrawal Date in the manner set forth above, no more than two (2)
times.

          In the event a Participant terminates employment with the Company
prior to a Scheduled Withdrawal Date, other than by reason of death or
Retirement, the portion of the Participant's Account associated with a Scheduled
Withdrawal Date, which has not occurred prior to such termination, shall be
distributed in accordance with the election made by the Participant on his or
her initial election form.

          Distributable Amounts subject to a Scheduled Withdrawal Date shall be
paid in February of the Plan Year in which the Scheduled Withdrawal Date falls.

          (f) Distribution for Termination of Employment due to Death. In the
case of the death of a Participant while employed by the Company, the
Participant's Account balance shall be distributed to the Participant's
Beneficiary, in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the end of the
calendar quarter in which death occurs. In the event a Participant dies after
his or her termination of employment and while receiving installment payments,
the remaining installments shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary in a
lump sum as soon as practicable following the end of the calendar quarter in
which death occurs.

     6.3  Early Non-Scheduled Distributions.

          A Participant shall be permitted to elect an Early Distribution from
his or her Account prior to the Payment Date, subject to the following
restrictions:

          (a) The election to take an Early Distribution shall be made by filing
a form provided by and filed with the Committee or, if permitted by the
Committee, via voice response, internet or other approved technology prior to
the end of any calendar month.

          (b) The amount of the Early Distribution shall equal up to 90% of the
Participant's vested Account balance. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Plan, amounts credited to the Stock Unit Sub-account Option Gains,
Restricted Stock Awards and Company Matching Contribution Sub-account shall not
be eligible for an Early Distribution.

                                      -14-
<PAGE>


          (c) The amount described in subsection (b) above shall be paid in a
cash lump sum as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar month in
which the Early Distribution election is made.

          (d) If a Participant requests an Early Distribution of his or her
entire vested Account, the remaining balance of his or her Account (10% of the
Account) shall be permanently forfeited and the Company shall have no obligation
to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary with respect to such forfeited
amount. If a Participant receives an Early Distribution of less than
his or her entire vested Account, such Participant shall forfeit 10% of the
gross amount to be distributed from the Participant's Account and the Company
shall have no obligation to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary with
respect to such forfeited amount.

          (e) If a Participant receives an Early Distribution of either all or a
part of his or her Account, the Participant will be ineligible to participate in
the Plan for the balance of the Plan Year and the following Plan Year; provided,
however, that such individual shall remain an Participant in the Plan with
respect to amounts already deferred.

     6.4  Hardship Distribution.

          (a) Except with respect to a Participant's Stock Unit Subaccount and
Company Contribution Matching Subaccount, a Participant shall be permitted to
elect a Hardship Distribution from his or her Deferral Compensation Subaccount
and vested Company Discretionary Contribution Subaccounts prior to the Payment
Date, subject to the following restrictions:

          (b) The election to take a Hardship Distribution shall be made by
filing a form provided by and filed with Committee prior to the end of any
calendar month.

          (c) The Committee shall have made a determination, in its sole
discretion, that the requested distribution constitutes a Hardship Distribution
in accordance with Section 1.2(aa) of the Plan.

          (d) The amount determined by the Committee as a Hardship Distribution
shall be paid in a cash lump sum as soon as practicable after the Hardship
Distribution election is made and approved by the Committee.

          (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no Hardship Distribution
may be made to the extent that such hardship is or may be relieved (i) through
reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of
the Participant's assets, to the extent the liquidation of assets would not
itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) by cessation of deferrals under
this Plan.

     6.5  Inability to Locate Participant.

          In the event that the Committee is unable to locate a Participant or
Beneficiary within two years following the required Payment Date, the amount
allocated to the Participant's Account shall be forfeited. If, after such
forfeiture, the Participant or Beneficiary later claims such benefit, such
benefit shall be reinstated without additional interest or earnings.

                                      -15-

<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE VII

                                 ADMINISTRATION

     7.1  Committee.

          A Committee shall be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the
Compensation Committee. The number of members comprising the Committee shall be
determined by the Compensation Committee, which may from time to time vary the
number of members. A member of the Committee may resign by delivering a written
notice of resignation to the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee
may remove any member by delivering a certified copy of its resolution of
removal to such member. Vacancies in the membership of the Committee shall be
filled promptly by the Compensation Committee.

     7.2  Committee Action.

          The Committee shall act at meetings by affirmative vote of a majority
of the members of the Committee. Any action permitted to be taken at a meeting
may be taken without a meeting if, prior to such action, a written consent to
the action is signed by all members of the Committee and such written consent is
filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee. A member of the
Committee shall not vote or act upon any matter which relates solely to himself
or herself as a Participant. The Chairman or any other member or members of the
Committee designated by the Chairman may execute any certificate or other
written direction on behalf of the Committee.

     7.3  Powers and Duties of the Committee.

          The Committee, on behalf of the Participants and their Beneficiaries,
shall enforce the Plan in accordance with its terms, shall be charged with the
general administration of the Plan, and shall have all powers necessary to
accomplish its purposes, including, but not limited to, the following:

               (i) To select the Funds in accordance with Section 3.2(a) hereof;

               (ii) To construe and interpret the terms and provisions of this
Plan;

               (iii) To compute and certify to the amount and kind of benefits
payable to Participants and their Beneficiaries;

               (iv) To maintain all records that may be necessary for the
administration of the Plan;

               (v) To provide for the disclosure of all information and the
filing or provision of all reports and statements to Participants, Beneficiaries
or governmental agencies as shall be required by law;

               (vi) To make and publish such rules for the regulation of the
Plan and procedures for the administration of the Plan as are not inconsistent
with the terms hereof;

                                      -16-

<PAGE>

               (vii) To appoint a Plan administrator or any other agent, and to
delegate to them such powers and duties in connection with the administration of
the Plan as the Committee may from time to time prescribe; and

               (viii) To take all actions necessary for the administration of
the Plan.

     7.4  Construction and Interpretation.

          The Committee shall have full discretion to construe and interpret the
terms and provisions of this Plan, which interpretations or construction shall
be final and binding on all parties, including but not limited to the Company
and any Participant or Beneficiary. The Committee shall administer such terms
and provisions in a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner and in full accordance
with any and all laws applicable to the Plan.

     7.5  Information.

          To enable the Committee to perform its functions, the Company shall
supply full and timely information to the Committee on all matters relating to
the Compensation of all Participants, their death or other events which cause
termination of their participation in this Plan, and such other pertinent facts
as the Committee may require.

     7.6  Compensation, Expenses and Indemnity.

          (a) The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for
their services hereunder.

          (b) The Committee is authorized at the expense of the Company to
employ such legal counsel as it may deem advisable to assist in the performance
of its duties hereunder. Expenses and fees in connection with the administration
of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.

          (c) To the extent permitted by applicable state law, the Company shall
indemnify and hold harmless the Committee and each member thereof, the Board of
Directors and any delegate of the Committee who is an employee of the Company
against any and all expenses, liabilities and claims, including legal fees to
defend against such liabilities and claims arising out of their discharge in
good faith of responsibilities under or incident to the Plan, other than
expenses and liabilities arising out of willful misconduct. This indemnity shall
not preclude such further indemnities as may be available under insurance
purchased by the Company or provided by the Company under any bylaw, agreement
or otherwise, as such indemnities are permitted under state law.

     7.7  Quarterly Statements.

          Under procedures established by the Committee, a Participant shall
receive a statement with respect to such Participant's Accounts on a quarterly
basis.

                                      -17-

<PAGE>

     7.8  Disputes.

          (a) Claim.

          A person who believes that he or she is being denied a benefit to
which he or she is entitled under this Plan (hereinafter referred to as
"Claimant") must file a written request for such benefit with the Company,
setting forth his or her claim within 90 days of the date such Claimant believes
he or she was entitled to benefits under the Plan. The request must be addressed
to the President of the Company at its then principal place of business.


                                      -16-
<PAGE>


          (b) Claim Decision.

          Upon receipt of a claim, the Company shall advise the Claimant that a
reply will be forthcoming within ninety (90) days and shall, in fact, deliver
such reply within such period. The Company may, however, extend the reply period
for an additional ninety (90) days for special circumstances.

          If the claim is denied in whole or in part, the Company shall inform
the Claimant in writing, setting forth: (i) the specified reason or reasons for
such denial; (ii) the specific reference to pertinent provisions of this Plan on
which such denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or
information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an
explanation of why such material or such information is necessary; (iv)
appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to
submit the claim for review; and (v) the time limits for requesting a review
under subsection (c).

          (c) Request For Review.

          Within sixty (60) days after the receipt by the Claimant of the
written opinion described above, the Claimant may request in writing that the
Committee review the determination of the Company. Such request must be
addressed to the Secretary of the Company, at its then principal place of
business. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but
need not, review the pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in
writing for consideration by the Committee. If the Claimant does not request a
review within such sixty (60) day period, he or she shall be barred and estopped
from challenging the Company's determination.

          (d) Review of Decision.

          Within sixty (60) days after the Committee's receipt of a request for
review, after considering all materials presented by the Claimant, the Committee
will inform the Claimant in writing, the decision setting forth the specific
reasons for the decision containing specific references to the pertinent
provisions of this Plan on which the decision is based. If special circumstances
require that the sixty (60) day time period be extended, the Committee will so
notify the Claimant and will render the decision as soon as possible, but no
later than one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of the request for
review.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>


                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     8.1  Unsecured General Creditor.

          Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors, and assigns
shall have no legal or equitable rights, claims, or interest in any specific
property or assets of the Company. No assets of the Company shall be held in any
way as collateral security for the fulfilling of the obligations of the Company
under this Plan. Any and all of the Company's assets shall be, and remain, the
general unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Company. The Company's obligation
under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the
Company to pay money in the future, and the rights of the Participants and
Beneficiaries shall be no greater than those of unsecured general creditors. It
is the intention of the Company that this Plan be unfunded for purposes of the
Code and for purposes of Title 1 of ERISA.

     8.2  Restriction Against Assignment.

          The Company shall pay all amounts payable hereunder only to the person
or persons designated by the Plan and not to any other person or corporation. No
part of a Participant's Accounts shall be liable for the debts, contracts, or
engagements of any Participant, his or her Beneficiary, or successors in
interest, nor shall a Participant's Accounts be subject to execution by levy,
attachment, or garnishment or by any other legal or equitable proceeding, nor
shall any such person have any right to alienate, anticipate, sell, transfer,
commute, pledge, encumber, or assign any benefits or payments hereunder in any
manner whatsoever. If any Participant, Beneficiary or successor in interest is
adjudicated bankrupt or purports to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer,
commute, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any distribution or payment from the
Plan, voluntarily or involuntarily, the Committee, in its discretion, may cancel
such distribution or payment (or any part thereof) to or for the benefit of such
Participant, Beneficiary or successor in interest in such manner as the
Committee shall direct.

     8.3  Withholding.

          Subject to Article II, There shall be deducted from each payment made
under the Plan or any other Compensation payable to the Participant (or
Beneficiary) all taxes which are required to be withheld by the Company in
respect to such payment or this Plan. The Company shall have the right to reduce
any payment (or compensation) by the amount of cash sufficient to provide the
amount of said taxes.

     8.4  Amendment, Modification, Suspension or Termination.

          The Committee may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan in
whole or in part, except that no amendment, modification, suspension or
termination shall have any retroactive effect to reduce any amounts allocated to
a Participant's Accounts. In the event that this Plan is terminated, the amounts
allocated to a Participant's Accounts shall be distributed to

                                      -19-

<PAGE>

the Participant or, in the event of his or her death, his or her Beneficiary in
a lump sum within thirty (30) days following the date of termination.

     8.5  Governing Law.

          This Plan shall be construed, governed and administered in accordance
with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to the conflicts of law
principles thereof.

     8.6  Receipt or Release.

          Any payment to a Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall, to the extent thereof, be in
full satisfaction of all claims against the Committee and the Company. The
Committee may require such Participant or Beneficiary, as a condition precedent
to such payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.



     8.7  Payments on Behalf of Persons Under Incapacity.

          In the event that any amount becomes payable under the Plan to a
person who, in the sole judgment of the Committee, is considered by reason of
physical or mental condition to be unable to give a valid receipt therefore, the
Committee may direct that such payment be made to any person found by the
Committee, in its sole judgment, to have assumed the care of such person. Any
payment made pursuant to such determination shall constitute a full release and
discharge of the Committee and the Company.

     8.8  Limitation of Rights and Employment Relationship

          Neither the establishment of the Plan nor any modification thereof,
nor the creating of any fund or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall
be construed as giving to any Participant, or Beneficiary or other person any
legal or equitable right against the Company except as provided in the Plan; and
in no event shall the terms of employment of any Employee or Participant be
modified or in any way be affected by the provisions of the Plan.

     8.9  Headings.

          Headings and subheadings in this Plan are inserted for convenience of
reference only and are not to be considered in the construction of the
provisions hereof.



                                      -20-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12.1
<SEQUENCE>19
<FILENAME>x12-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 12.1



                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries
               Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

                          (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT RATIOS)



<TABLE>
                                                           Year Ended December 31,
                                              ------------------------------------------------
                                                 2001      2000      1999      1998      1997
                                              ------------------------------------------------
<CAPTION>
<S>                                           <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>

Earnings:

 Income from continuing operations
   before income taxes and changes
   in accounting principles                   $ 5,670   $ 3,399   $ 3,819   $ 5,198   $ 6,055


 Fixed charges                                    327       489       386       320       300

 Less: Capitalized interest, net                   (8)      (11)      (18)      (17)      (17)

       Equity income or loss,
        net of dividends                          (54)      380       292        31      (108)
                                              ------------------------------------------------

   Adjusted earnings                          $ 5,935   $ 4,257   $ 4,479   $ 5,532   $ 6,230
                                              ================================================

Fixed charges:

 Gross interest incurred                      $   297   $   458   $   355   $   294   $   275

 Interest portion of rent expense                  30        31        31        26        25
                                              ------------------------------------------------

   Total fixed charges                        $   327   $   489   $   386   $   320   $   300
                                              ================================================

   Ratios of earnings to fixed charges           18.1       8.7      11.6      17.3      20.8
                                              ================================================


<FN>

The Company is contingently liable for guarantees of indebtedness owed by third
parties in the amount of $436 million, of which $10 million related to the
Company's equity investee bottlers. Fixed charges for these contingent
liabilities have not been included in the computation of the above ratios as the
amounts are immaterial and, in the opinion of Management, it is not probable
that the Company will be required to satisfy the guarantees.

</FN>
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>20
<FILENAME>x13-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF 2001 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHARE OWNERS
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 13.1

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

The  Coca-Cola  Company,  together  with its  subsidiaries,  (the Company or our
Company) exists to benefit and refresh  everyone who is touched by our business.
We believe  that our  success  ultimately  depends  on our  ability to build and
nurture  relationships  with  constituents  that are  essential to our business:
consumers,  customers, bottlers, partners, government authorities,  communities,
employees  and  share  owners.  In order to serve  and  create  value  for these
constituents, The Coca-Cola Company executes a business strategy to drive growth
focused on  the  following  priorities:  (1)  accelerate  carbonated  soft-drink
growth, led by Coca-Cola;  (2) selectively broaden our family of beverage brands
to  drive  profitable  growth;  (3) grow  system  profitability  and  capability
together with our bottling  partners;  (4) serve  customers with  creativity and
consistency to generate  growth across all channels;  (5) direct  investments to
highest   potential  areas  across  markets;   and  (6)  drive   efficiency  and
cost-effectiveness everywhere. Underlying these priorities are our objectives of
increasing   revenue  by  volume  growth,   expanding  our  share  of  worldwide
nonalcoholic  ready-to-drink beverage sales, maximizing our long-term cash flows
and improving  economic  profit.  We pursue these  objectives  by  strategically
investing in the  high-return  beverage  business and by optimizing  our cost of
capital through appropriate financial strategies.

INVESTMENTS

With a  business  system  that  operates  locally in nearly  200  countries  and
generates superior cash flows, we consider our Company to be uniquely positioned
to  capitalize  on  profitable  investment   opportunities.   Our  criteria  for
investment  are simple:  New  investments  must  directly  enhance our  existing
operations  and must be  expected  to  provide  cash  returns  that  exceed  our
long-term,  after-tax,  weighted-average cost of capital, currently estimated at
between 10 and 11 percent.

   Because it has consistently  generated high returns, we consider the beverage
business to be a particularly  attractive investment for us. In highly developed
markets,  our expenditures focus primarily on marketing our Company's brands. In
emerging and developing markets, our objective is to increase the penetration of
our products. In these markets, we allocate most of our investments to enhancing
our  brands  and  infrastructure  such as  production  facilities,  distribution
networks,  sales equipment and technology.  We make these investments by forming
strategic business alliances with local bottlers and by matching local expertise
with our experience, resources and focus.

   We pursue our strategic  investment  priorities in a way that  capitalizes on
the combination of our most  fundamental and enduring  attributes -- our brands,
our people and our  bottling  partners.  There are over 6 billion  people in the
world  who  represent  potential  consumers  of our  Company's  products.  As we
increase  consumer demand for our family of brands, we produce growth throughout
the Coca-Cola system.

Our Brands
We compete in the nonalcoholic  ready-to-drink  beverage business. Our offerings
in this category  include some of the world's most valuable brands -- nearly 300
in all. These include carbonated soft drinks and noncarbonated beverages such as
sports  drinks,  juice and  juice  drinks,  water  products,  teas and  coffees.
Ultimately,  consumer demand  determines the Company's  optimal brand offerings.
Employing  our  localized  business  strategy  with a  special  focus  on  brand
Coca-Cola, the Company seeks to build its existing brands and, at the same time,
to profitably  broaden its  historical  family of brands.  To meet our long-term
growth objectives,  we make significant  investments to support our brands. This
process involves  investments to support existing brands,  to develop new global
or local brands, and to acquire global or local brands, when appropriate.

   Our Company  introduced a variety of new brands in 2001,  including diet Coke
with lemon,  Simply  Orange,  Minute  Maid  Lemonade,  Minute Maid Fruit  Punch,
Marocha Green Tea in Japan, Senzao in Mexico, and a reformulated  POWERade.  Our
Company acquired brands during 2001 such as Odwalla,  Planet Java and Mad River.
We  also  introduced  existing  brands  in  additional  markets,   such  as  the
introduction of Qoo in Korea and Singapore.

   We make significant investments in marketing to support our brands. Marketing
investments  enhance consumer awareness and increase consumer preference for our
brands. This produces long-term growth in volume, per capita consumption and our
share of worldwide nonalcoholic ready-to-drink beverage sales.

Our People
Our people -- the employees of The Coca-Cola  Company who work with our bottling
partners and other key constituents -- are essential to our success. To meet our
long-term  growth  objectives,  we  recruit  and  actively  cultivate  a diverse
workforce and establish a culture that fosters  learning,  innovation  and value
creation on a daily

                                    Page 41

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

basis.  This means  maintaining and refining a corporate culture that encourages
our  people to  develop  to their  fullest  potential,  assuring  enjoyment  and
satisfaction  in  the  Company's  work  environment.   Our  Company  values  the
uniqueness  of all  employees and the  contributions  they make,  and we put the
responsibility  and  accountability  for ensuring local relevance and maximizing
business performance in the hands of those closest to the market.  Additionally,
we have made  innovation  an explicit  priority for all of our  associates.  Our
associates work together with bottling  partners to understand  markets and what
consumers  want.  Then we meet  that  need by  delivering  product  through  our
unparalleled system.

Our Bottling Partners
The  financial  health  and  success  of  our  bottling  partners  are  critical
components of the Company's  ability to deliver leading brands.  Our people work
with our  bottling  partners  to  continuously  look for ways to improve  system
economics.  Our Company has business relationships with three types of bottlers:
(1) independently owned bottlers,  in which we have no ownership  interest;  (2)
bottlers  in  which  we  have  invested  and  have a  non-controlling  ownership
interest;  and (3)  bottlers in which we have  invested  and have a  controlling
ownership interest.

   The independently  owned bottling operations and the bottlers in which we own
a  non-controlling  interest  generally have  significant  funding from majority
owners and other financing sources that are otherwise  unrelated to our Company.
The terms of sales to these bottling partners are arms-length transactions.

   During 2001, independently owned bottling operations produced and distributed
approximately 23 percent of our worldwide unit case volume. Bottlers in which we
own a non-controlling  ownership interest produced and distributed approximately
61 percent of our 2001 worldwide unit case volume. Controlled bottling, fountain
operations and The Minute Maid Company produced and distributed approximately 16
percent.

   In July 2001, our Company and San Miguel  Corporation  (San Miguel)  acquired
Coca-Cola  Bottlers  Philippines,  Inc.  (CCBPI) from  Coca-Cola  Amatil Limited
(Coca-Cola  Amatil).  Upon completion of this transaction,  our Company owned 35
percent of the common shares and 100 percent of the Preferred B shares,  and San
Miguel owned 65 percent of the common shares of CCBPI. Additionally, as a result
of this transaction, our Company's interest in Coca-Cola Amatil was reduced from
approximately 38 percent to approximately 35 percent.

   During 2000,  the Company  entered  into a joint  venture in China with China
National Oils and Foodstuffs Imports/Exports  Corporation (COFCO), completion of
which  occurred in 2001.  COFCO  contributed  to the joint  venture its minority
equity  interests in 11 Chinese  bottlers.  Our Company  contributed  its equity
interests in two Chinese  bottlers plus cash in exchange for a 35 percent equity
interest in the venture.

   On December  31,  1999,  we owned  approximately  50.5  percent of  Coca-Cola
Beverages  plc  (Coca-Cola  Beverages).  In July  2000,  a merger  of  Coca-Cola
Beverages and Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A. was completed to create Coca-Cola
HBC S.A.  (CCHBC).  This merger  resulted in a decrease of our Company's  equity
ownership  interest from  approximately  50.5 percent of Coca-Cola  Beverages to
approximately 24 percent of the combined entity, CCHBC. This change in ownership
resulted in the Company recognizing a $118 million tax-free non-cash gain in the
third quarter of 2000.

   In 1999, two Japanese  bottlers,  Kita Kyushu Coca-Cola Bottling Company Ltd.
and Sanyo  Coca-Cola  Bottling  Company Ltd.,  merged to become a new,  publicly
traded bottling company,  Coca-Cola West Japan Company Ltd. We own approximately
5 percent of this bottler.

   In 1999, we increased our interest in Embotelladora Arica S.A. (since renamed
Coca-Cola Embonor S.A.), a bottler headquartered in Chile, from approximately 17
percent to approximately 45 percent.

   Bottlers in which we have a non-controlling  ownership interest are accounted
for under  the cost or equity  method  as  appropriate.  Equity  income or loss,
included  in our  consolidated  net  income,  represents  our  share  of the net
earnings or losses of our equity  investee  companies.  In 2001,  our  Company's
share of income from equity method investments totaled $152 million.

                                    Page 42

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The following  table  illustrates  the difference in calculated  fair values,
based on quoted  closing  prices of publicly  traded  shares,  and our Company's
carrying values for selected equity method investees (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                              Fair    Carrying
December 31,                                 Value       Value    Difference (1)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>           <C>         <C>
2001
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.                 $ 3,200       $ 788       $ 2,412
Coca-Cola Amatil Limited                       748         432           316
Coca-Cola HBC S.A.                             811         791            20
Coca-Cola FEMSA,
  S.A. de C.V.                                 858         316           542
Panamerican Beverages, Inc.                    455         484           (29)
Grupo Continental, S.A.                        231         160            71
Coca-Cola Bottling
  Company Consolidated                          94          62            32
Coca-Cola Embonor S.A.                         114         187           (73)
Embotelladoras Polar S.A.                       33          51           (18)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     $ 3,273
================================================================================


<FN>
(1) In instances  where carrying value exceeds fair value,  the decline in value
is considered to be temporary.

</FN>
</TABLE>

   Historically, in certain situations, we have viewed it to be advantageous for
our Company to acquire a controlling interest in a bottling operation,  often on
a  temporary  basis.  Owning  such a  controlling  interest  has  allowed  us to
compensate  for  limited  local  resources  and has enabled us to help focus the
bottler's  sales and marketing  programs,  assist in developing its business and
information systems and establish appropriate capital structures.

   In  February  2001,  our  Company   reached   agreement  with  Carlsberg  A/S
(Carlsberg) for the dissolution of Coca-Cola  Nordic  Beverages  (CCNB), a joint
venture in which our Company had a 49 percent ownership.  At that time, CCNB had
bottling operations in Sweden, Norway, Denmark,  Finland and Iceland. Under this
agreement with Carlsberg, our Company acquired CCNB's Sweden and Norway bottling
operations in June 2001, increasing our Company's ownership in those bottlers to
100 percent.  Carlsberg acquired CCNB's Denmark and Finland bottling operations,
increasing  Carlsberg's ownership in those bottlers to 100 percent.  Pursuant to
the agreement,  CCNB sold its Iceland bottling operations to a third-party group
of investors in May 2001.

   In 2001, our Company concluded  negotiations regarding the terms of a Control
and Profit and Loss (CPL) agreement with certain other share owners of Coca-Cola
Erfrischungsgetraenke  AG (CCEAG),  the largest bottler in Germany, in which the
Company has an approximate 41 percent ownership interest. Under the terms of the
CPL agreement,  the Company obtained management control of CCEAG for a period of
up to five years.  In return for the  management  control of CCEAG,  the Company
guaranteed  annual  payments  in lieu of  dividends  by CCEAG to all other CCEAG
share owners.  Additionally,  all other CCEAG share owners entered into either a
put or a put/call option  agreement with the Company,  exercisable at the end of
the term of the CPL  agreement  at agreed  prices.  In early  2002,  the Company
assumed control of CCEAG.  This  transaction will be accounted for as a business
combination.  The  present  value of the total  amount  likely to be paid by our
Company to all other CCEAG share owners,  including the put or put/call payments
and the guaranteed annual payments in lieu of dividends,  is approximately  $600
million.   In  2001,   CCEAG's   revenues  were   approximately   $1.7  billion.
Additionally,  our Company's  debt will  increase  between $700 million and $800
million once this business combination is completed.

   During  the  first  half of  2001,  in  separate  transactions,  our  Company
purchased two bottlers in Brazil: Refrescos Guararapes Ltda. and Sucovalle Sucos
e Concentrados  do Vale S.A. In separate  transactions  during the first half of
2000, our Company  purchased two other bottlers in Brazil:  Companhia Mineira de
Refrescos,  S.A.  and  Refrigerantes  Minas Gerais Ltda.  In October  2000,  the
Company purchased a 58 percent interest in Paraguay Refrescos S.A.  (Paresa),  a
bottler  located in Paraguay.  In December 2000, the Company made a tender offer
for the remaining 42 percent of the shares in Paresa. In January 2001, following
the completion of the tender offer, we owned approximately 95 percent of Paresa.

   In July 1999,  our  Company  acquired  from  Fraser and Neave  Limited its 75
percent ownership  interest in F&N Coca-Cola Pte Limited (F&N Coca-Cola).  Prior
to the  acquisition,  our  Company  held a 25  percent  equity  interest  in F&N
Coca-Cola.  Acquisition of Fraser and Neave  Limited's 75 percent stake gave our
Company  full  ownership  of F&N  Coca-Cola.  F&N  Coca-Cola  holds  a  majority
ownership in bottling  operations  in Brunei,  Cambodia,  Nepal,  Pakistan,  Sri
Lanka, Singapore and Vietnam.

   In line with our long-term  bottling strategy,  we consider  alternatives for
reducing our ownership interest in a bottler.  One alternative is to combine our
bottling interests with the bottling interests of others to form

                                    Page 43
<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

strategic business  alliances.  Another alternative is to sell our interest in a
bottling  operation  to one of our equity  investee  bottlers.  In both of these
situations,  we continue to participate  in the bottler's  results of operations
through our share of the equity investee's earnings or losses.

   In November 2001,  our Company sold nearly all of its ownership  interests in
various Russian bottling  operations to CCHBC for approximately  $170 million in
cash and notes  receivable,  of which $146 million in notes receivable  remained
outstanding as of December 31, 2001. These interests  consisted of the Company's
40 percent  ownership  interest  in a joint  venture  with  CCHBC that  operates
bottling  territories in Siberia and parts of Western Russia,  together with our
Company's nearly 100 percent  interests in bottling  operations with territories
covering the remainder of Russia.

   For additional  information about  transactions  with our bottling  partners,
refer to Notes 2, 17 and 18 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

FINANCIAL STRATEGIES

The  following  strategies  are  intended  to  optimize  our  cost  of  capital,
increasing our ability to maximize share-owner value.

Debt Financing
Our Company  maintains  debt levels we consider  prudent based on our cash flow,
interest  coverage and  percentage of debt to capital.  We use debt financing to
lower our overall cost of capital,  which increases our return on  share-owners'
equity.

   As of December  31,  2001,  our  long-term  debt was rated "A+" by Standard &
Poor's and "Aa3" by Moody's,  and our  commercial  paper program was rated "A-1"
and "P-1" by  Standard & Poor's and  Moody's,  respectively.  In  assessing  our
credit  strength,  both  Standard  & Poor's and  Moody's  consider  our  capital
structure and financial  policies as well as aggregated  balance sheet and other
financial  information for the Company and certain bottlers including  Coca-Cola
Enterprises Inc.  (Coca-Cola  Enterprises)  and CCHBC.  While the Company has no
legal obligation for the debt of these bottlers, the rating agencies believe the
strategic  importance of the bottlers to the Company's  business  model provides
the Company  with an  incentive  to keep these  bottlers  viable.  If the credit
ratings  were  reduced  by the  rating  agencies,  our  interest  expense  could
increase.

   Our global  presence and strong  capital  position give us easy access to key
financial  markets  around  the  world,  enabling  us to raise  funds with a low
effective cost. This posture,  coupled with the active  management of our mix of
short-term and long-term debt, results in a lower overall cost of borrowing. Our
debt management policies,  in conjunction with our share repurchase programs and
investment activity,  typically result in current liabilities  exceeding current
assets.

   In managing  our use of debt  capital,  we consider the  following  financial
measurements and ratios:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                                 2001    2000    1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>     <C>     <C>
Net debt (in billions)                                 $ 3.3   $ 3.9   $ 4.5
Net debt-to-net capital                                   23%     29%     32%
Free cash flow to net debt                                95%     72%     52%
Interest coverage                                         20x     12x     14x
Ratio of earnings to
  fixed charges                                         18.1x    8.7x   11.6x
===============================================================================

</TABLE>

Share Repurchases
In October  1996,  our Board of Directors  authorized a plan to repurchase up to
206 million shares of our Company's common stock through the year 2006. In 2001,
we repurchased approximately 5 million shares under the 1996 plan.

   In 2000, we did not repurchase  any shares under the 1996 plan.  This was due
to our utilization of cash for an organizational  realignment (the Realignment),
as discussed under the heading "Other Operating Charges," and the impact on cash
from the  reduction in  concentrate  inventory  levels by certain  bottlers,  as
discussed under the heading "Volume."

   In 1999, we did not  repurchase  any shares under the 1996 plan due primarily
to our  utilization  of cash for  brand  and  bottler  acquisitions.  Since  the
inception of our initial  share  repurchase  program in 1984 through our current
program as of December 31, 2001, we have repurchased more than 1 billion shares.
This  represents 32 percent of the shares  outstanding as of January 1, 1984, at
an  average  price  per share of  $12.64.

   We expect that the Company's share  repurchases will be increased in 2002 and
are  currently  estimating a range of $750 million to $1 billion of  repurchases
during the year.

Dividend Policy
At its  February  2002  meeting,  our Board of  Directors  again  increased  our
quarterly dividend, raising it to

                                    Page 44

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

$.20 per share. This is equivalent to a full-year  dividend of $.80 in 2002, our
40th consecutive annual increase.  Our annual common stock dividend was $.72 per
share, $.68 per share and $.64 per share in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

   In 2001, our dividend  payout ratio was  approximately  45 percent of our net
income. To free up additional cash for reinvestment in our high-return  beverage
business, our Board of Directors intends to gradually reduce our dividend payout
ratio to 30 percent over time.

FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

Our  Company  uses  derivative  financial  instruments  primarily  to reduce our
exposure to adverse  fluctuations  in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates
and, to a lesser  extent,  adverse  fluctuations  in commodity  prices and other
market risks. We do not enter into derivative financial  instruments for trading
purposes. As a matter of policy, all our derivative positions are used to reduce
risk by hedging an underlying economic exposure. Because of the high correlation
between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure,  fluctuations in the
value of the instruments are generally offset by reciprocal changes in the value
of the underlying exposure. Virtually all of our derivatives are straightforward
over-the-counter instruments with liquid markets.

Foreign Currency
We manage most of our foreign currency exposures on a consolidated  basis, which
allows us to net certain  exposures and take  advantage of any natural  offsets.
With  approximately 77 percent of 2001 operating  income  generated  outside the
United States,  weakness in one particular currency is often offset by strengths
in others over time. We use derivative  financial  instruments to further reduce
our net exposure to currency fluctuations.

   Our Company  enters into forward  contracts  and purchases  currency  options
(principally euro and Japanese yen) to hedge certain portions of forecasted cash
flows denominated in foreign currencies.  Additionally,  the Company enters into
forward  exchange  contracts to offset the earnings  impact relating to exchange
rate fluctuations on certain monetary assets and liabilities. The Company enters
into forward  exchange  contracts as hedges of net investments in  international
operations.

Interest Rates
Our Company  maintains  our  percentage  of fixed and variable  rate debt within
defined  parameters.  We enter into interest rate swap  agreements that maintain
the fixed-to-variable mix within these parameters.

Value at Risk
Our Company  monitors  our  exposure to  financial  market  risks using  several
objective measurement systems, including value-at-risk models. Our value-at-risk
calculations  use a historical  simulation  model to estimate  potential  future
losses in the fair value of our derivatives and other financial instruments that
could occur as a result of adverse  movements  in foreign  currency and interest
rates.  We have not  considered the potential  impact of favorable  movements in
foreign currency and interest rates on our calculation.  We examined  historical
weekly  returns over the previous 10 years to calculate  our value at risk.  The
average value at risk  represents the simple  average of quarterly  amounts over
the past year. As a result of our foreign currency value-at-risk calculation, we
estimate with 95 percent confidence that the fair values of our foreign currency
derivatives  and other  financial  instruments,  over a one-week  period,  would
decline by less than $43 million using 2001 average fair values and by less than
$37 million  using  December  31, 2001 fair values.  On December  31,  2000,  we
estimated  the fair value would  decline by less than $37 million.  According to
our  interest  rate  value-at-risk  calculations,  we  estimate  with 95 percent
confidence that any increase in our net interest  expense due to an adverse move
in our 2001 average or in our December 31, 2001  interest  rates over a one-week
period  would  not  have  a  material  impact  on  our  Consolidated   Financial
Statements.  Our  December  31,  2000  estimate  also  was not  material  to our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

   For  additional  discussion of financial risk  management  related to hedging
transactions  and  derivative  financial  instruments,  refer  to  Note 9 in our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
- ------------------------------------

OUR BUSINESS

We  are  the  world's   leading   manufacturer,   marketer  and  distributor  of
nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups. Our Company manufactures beverage
concentrates and syrups and, in certain instances,  finished beverages, which we
sell to bottling and canning operations,

                                    Page 45
<PAGE>


      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

authorized fountain wholesalers and some fountain retailers.  We also market and
distribute  juice and  juice-drink  products.  In  addition,  we have  ownership
interests in numerous bottling and canning operations.

VOLUME

We  measure  our sales  volume in two ways:  (1)  gallons  and (2) unit cases of
finished products. Gallons represent our primary business and measure the volume
of  concentrates,  syrups and other beverage  products  (expressed in equivalent
gallons  of syrup)  included  by the  Company in unit case  volume.  Most of our
revenues are based on this measure of "wholesale" activity.

   We also measure  volume in unit cases.  As used in this  report,  "unit case"
means a unit of measurement  equal to 192 U.S. fluid ounces of finished beverage
(24  eight-ounce  servings);  and "unit case  volume" of the  Company  means the
number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents) of Company trademark or licensed
beverage products  directly or indirectly sold by the Coca-Cola  bottling system
or by  the  Company  to  customers,  including  (i)  beverage  products  bearing
trademarks  licensed to the Company and (ii) certain key products (which are not
material)  owned by our  bottlers and for which the Company  provides  marketing
support  and  derives  profit  from the sales.

   Our  worldwide  unit case volume  increased 4 percent in 2001,  on top of a 4
percent  increase in 2000. The increase in unit case volume reflects  consistent
performance  across certain key operations  despite  difficult  global  economic
conditions. Our business system sold 17.8 billion unit cases in 2001.

   In 2000,  certain bottlers reduced their concentrate  inventory levels.  This
was based on a joint review performed by the Company and our bottlers around the
world  in  order  to  determine  the  optimum   level  of  bottler   concentrate
inventories.  The joint review established that opportunities  existed to reduce
the level of concentrate inventory carried by bottlers in various regions of the
world.  During  the  first  half of  2000,  bottlers  in these  regions  reduced
concentrate  inventory  levels,  the majority of which occurred during the first
three months of 2000.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Consolidation
Our  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  include the accounts of The  Coca-Cola
Company and all subsidiaries  except where control is temporary or does not rest
with our Company. All majority-owned  entities in which our Company's control is
considered other than temporary are  consolidated.  For investments in companies
in which we have the ability to exercise  significant  influence  over operating
and financial policies, including certain investments where there is a temporary
majority  interest,  such entities are accounted for by the equity  method.  Our
judgments  regarding  the level of  influence  or control of each equity  method
investment  include  considering  key factors  such as our  ownership  interest,
representation  on the  board  of  directors,  participation  in  policy  making
decisions  and material  intercompany  transactions.  Our  investments  in other
companies  that we do not  control  and for which we do not have the  ability to
exercise  significant  influence as discussed  above are carried at cost or fair
value, as appropriate.  All significant  intercompany accounts and transactions,
including  transactions  with equity method  investees,  are eliminated from our
financial results.

Recoverability of  Investments
Management   periodically   assesses  the   recoverability   of  our   Company's
investments.  The significant  judgment required in management's  recoverability
assessment  is the  determination  of the  fair  value  of the  investment.  For
publicly  traded  investments,  the fair value of our  Company's  investment  is
readily  determinable  based on quoted market prices.  For  non-publicly  traded
investments,  management's  assessment of fair value is based on our analysis of
the  investee's  estimates of future  operating  results and the resulting  cash
flows.  Management's ability to accurately predict future cash flows, especially
in emerging and  developing  markets such as the Middle East and Latin  America,
may impact the determination of fair value.

   In the event a decline in fair value of an investment occurs,  management may
be required to make a determination as to whether the decline in market value is
other than temporary.  Management's  assessment as to the nature of a decline in
fair value is largely based on our estimates of future  operating  results,  the
resulting  cash flows and intent to hold the  investment.  If an  investment  is
considered  to be impaired  and the decline in value is  considered  to be other
than temporary, an appropriate write-down is recorded.

                                    Page 46


<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

Other Assets
Our  Company  invests in  infrastructure  programs  with our  bottlers  that are
directed at  strengthening  our bottling  system and increasing unit case sales.
Additionally,  our Company advances  payments to certain customers for marketing
to fund activities  intended to generate volume.  Advance payments are also made
to certain customers for distribution rights.  Payments under these programs are
generally  capitalized  as other  assets  on the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheets.
Management   periodically  evaluates  the  recoverability  of  these  assets  by
preparing  estimates of sales volume, the resulting gross profit, cash flows and
other  factors.   Accuracy  of  our  recoverability   assessments  is  based  on
management's  ability to accurately  predict certain key variables such as sales
volume, prices, marketing spending and other economic factors.  Predicting these
key variables involves uncertainty about future events; however, the assumptions
used are consistent with our internal planning. If the assets are assessed to be
recoverable,  they are  amortized  over the periods  benefited.  If the carrying
value of these  assets is  considered  to be not  recoverable,  such  assets are
written down as appropriate.

Trademarks and Other Intangible Assets
Trademarks and other  intangible  assets are stated on the basis of cost and are
amortized,  principally  on a  straight-line  basis,  over the estimated  future
periods to be  benefited  (not  exceeding  40 years).  Other  intangible  assets
consist primarily of bottling and distribution  rights in specific  territories.
Trademarks and other intangible assets are periodically  reviewed for impairment
whenever  events or changes  occur that  indicate the carrying  value may not be
recoverable.  When such events or changes occur, management estimates the future
cash flows  expected  to result from the use and, if  applicable,  the  eventual
disposition  of the assets.  The key variables  which  management  must estimate
include sales volume,  prices,  marketing  spending and other economic  factors.
Significant  management judgment is involved in estimating these variables,  and
they  include  inherent   uncertainties;   however,  the  assumptions  used  are
consistent  with  our  internal  planning.  Therefore,  management  periodically
evaluates and updates the estimates based on the conditions that influence these
variables. If such assets are considered impaired, they are written down to fair
value as  appropriate.

   The assumptions and conditions for  "Recoverability  of Investments,"  "Other
Assets" and "Trademarks and Other Intangible  Assets" reflect  management's best
assumptions and estimates,  but these items involve  inherent  uncertainties  as
described  above,  which  may or may not be  controllable  by  management.  As a
result,  the  accounting  for such items could  result in  different  amounts if
management used different assumptions or if different conditions occur in future
periods.

Other Policies
The Company has adopted or will adopt the  following new  accounting  standards:
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities," as amended by SFAS No. 137 and
SFAS No. 138; SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations"; and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other  Intangible  Assets."  These  standards are  considered to be critical
accounting  policies  and  are  explained  under  the  heading  "New  Accounting
Standards."

   For further information  concerning  accounting policies,  refer to Note 1 of
our Consolidated Financial Statements.

OPERATIONS

Net Operating Revenues and Gross Margin
In 2001,  on a  consolidated  basis,  our net  operating  revenues and our gross
profit grew 1 percent and 3 percent,  respectively.  The growth in net operating
revenues was primarily due to an increase in gallon  shipments,  price increases
in selected countries and the consolidation of the Nordic and Brazilian bottling
operations.  These gains were offset by the negative  impact of a stronger  U.S.
dollar and the sale of our  previously  owned  vending  operations  in Japan and
canning operations in Germany. Our gross profit margin increased to 69.9 percent
in 2001  from 68.8  percent  in 2000,  primarily  due to the sale in 2001 of our
Japan  vending  and  German  canning   operations,   partially   offset  by  the
consolidation  in  2001  of  the  Nordic  and  Brazilian  bottling   operations.
Generally, bottling and vending operations produce higher net revenues but lower
gross margins compared to concentrate and syrup operations.

   In 2000, on a consolidated  basis,  our net operating  revenues and our gross
profit each grew 3 percent.  The growth in net operating  revenues was primarily
due to improved business  conditions and price increases in selected  countries.
This growth was partially offset by the negative

                                    Page 47

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

impact  of a  stronger  U.S.  dollar  and the  inventory  reduction  by  certain
bottlers.  Our gross profit  margin of 68.8 percent  remained  unchanged in 2000
compared to 1999.

Selling, Administrative and General Expenses
Selling  expenses  totaled  $6,930  million in  2001,$6,863  million in 2000 and
$6,745 million in 1999.

   During the first quarter of 2001,  the Company  announced  plans to implement
incremental strategic marketing initiatives in order to accelerate the Company's
business  strategies.   During  2001,  the  Company  invested  $298  million  of
incremental  marketing in the United States,  Japan and Germany.

   The increase in 2001 was primarily  due to higher  marketing in line with the
Company's  unit case volume growth,  incremental  marketing  expenses  discussed
above  and the  consolidation  in  2001 of the  Nordic  and  Brazilian  bottling
operations.  Such  increases  were  partially  offset by the sale in 2001 of our
Japan vending and German  canning  operations  and the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to higher marketing  expenditures
in line  with unit  case  volume  growth  and the  consolidation  in 2000 of F&N
Coca-Cola. Additionally, as a result of the gain recognized in the third quarter
of 2000 from the merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages  and Hellenic  Bottling  Company
S.A.,  discussed in "Other  Income-Net," the Company invested  approximately $30
million in incremental marketing initiatives in CCHBC regions.

   Administrative  and general expenses  totaled $1,766 million in 2001,  $1,688
million in 2000 and $1,735  million in 1999.  The increase in 2001 is due to the
consolidation in 2001 of the Nordic and Brazilian bottling operations, partially
offset by the sale in 2001 of our Japan  vending and German  canning  operations
and the impact of a stronger U.S.  dollar.  The decrease in 2000 was primarily a
result of savings realized from the Realignment initiated in 2000, offset by the
consolidation in 2000 of F&N Coca-Cola.  See discussion under the heading "Other
Operating Charges" for a more complete description of the Realignment.

   Administrative  and  general  expenses,  as a  percentage  of  net  operating
revenues,  totaled  approximately  9 percent  in 2001,  8 percent  in 2000 and 9
percent in 1999.

Other Operating Charges

During 2000, we recorded  total  nonrecurring  charges of  approximately  $1,443
million.  Of this $1,443  million,  approximately  $405  million  related to the
impairment  of  certain   bottling,   manufacturing   and   intangible   assets;
approximately  $850 million related to the Realignment;  and approximately  $188
*million  related  to the  settlement  terms  of a class  action  discrimination
lawsuit and a donation to The Coca-Cola Foundation.

   In the first  quarter of 2000,  we  recorded  charges of  approximately  $405
million  related  to the  impairment  of  certain  bottling,  manufacturing  and
intangible  assets,  primarily  within our  Indian  bottling  operations.  These
impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying value of the identified
assets to fair  value.  Fair value was  derived  using cash flow  analysis.  The
assumptions  used in the cash flow analysis were  consistent  with those used in
our internal  planning  process.  The assumptions  included  estimates of future
growth in unit cases,  estimates  of gross  margins,  estimates of the impact of
exchange  rates and  estimates of tax rates and tax  incentives.  The charge was
primarily  the result of our  revised  outlook  for the Indian  beverage  market
including the future expected tax environment.  The remaining  carrying value of
long-lived  assets  within our Indian  bottling  operations,  immediately  after
recording the impairment charge,  was approximately  $300 million.

   In the first quarter of 2000, the Company  initiated the  Realignment,  which
reduced our workforce around the world and transferred responsibilities from our
corporate headquarters to local  revenue-generating  operating units. The intent
of the Realignment  was to effectively  align our corporate  resources,  support
systems and business  culture to fully  leverage the local  capabilities  of our
system.

   Employees were  separated  from almost all functional  areas of the Company's
operations,  and certain activities were outsourced to third parties.  The total
number of employees separated as of December 31, 2000, was approximately  5,200.
Employees separated from the Company as a result of the Realignment were offered
severance or early  retirement  packages,  as  appropriate,  which included both
financial and nonfinancial  components.  The Realignment expenses included costs
associated with involuntary terminations, voluntary retirements and other direct
costs associated with implementing the Realignment.  Other direct costs included
repatriating and relocating employees to local markets; asset write-downs; lease
cancellation costs; and costs associated with the development, communication and
administration  of the  Realignment.  We recorded total charges of approximately
$850 million related to

                                    Page 48

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

the Realignment. During 2000, the Company achieved approximately $150 million in
savings  from the  Realignment.  For a more  complete  description  of the costs
related  to the  Realignment,  refer  to Note 16 in our  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

   In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $188
million  related to the  settlement  terms of, and direct  costs  related  to, a
class action  discrimination  lawsuit.  The monetary  settlement  included  cash
payments to fund back pay, compensatory damages, a promotional  achievement fund
and  attorneys'  fees.  In  addition,  the  Company  introduced  a wide range of
training,  monitoring and mentoring programs.  Of the $188 million,  $50 million
was donated to The Coca-Cola Foundation to continue its broad range of community
support  programs.  In 2001,  our  Company  paid out  substantially  all of this
settlement.

   In the fourth  quarter of 1999,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $813
million.  Of this  $813  million,  approximately  $543  million  related  to the
impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets,  primarily
within our Russian and Caribbean  bottlers and in the Middle and Far East and in
North  America.  These  impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying
value of the identified  assets to fair value.  Fair values were derived using a
variety of  methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates  of sales
proceeds  and  independent  appraisals.  Where cash flow  analyses  were used to
estimate fair values,  key assumptions  employed,  consistent with those used in
our internal planning  process,  included our estimates of future growth in unit
case sales,  estimates of gross margins and estimates of the impact of inflation
and foreign currency fluctuations.  The charges were primarily the result of our
revised  outlook  in  certain  markets  due to  the  prolonged  severe  economic
downturns.  The remaining  carrying value of these impaired  long-lived  assets,
immediately  after  recording the  impairment  charge,  was  approximately  $140
million.

   Of the $813 million, approximately $196 million related to charges associated
with the  impairment  of the  distribution  and  bottling  assets of our vending
operations  in Japan and our bottling  operations  in the  Baltics.  The charges
reduced the carrying  value of these assets to their fair value less the cost to
sell.  Consistent with our long-term bottling strategy,  management  intended to
sell the assets of our vending  operations in Japan and our bottling  operations
in the Baltics. On December 22, 2000, the Company signed a definitive  agreement
to sell the  assets  of our  vending  operations  in  Japan,  and this  sale was
completed in 2001.  The proceeds from the sale of the assets were  approximately
equal to the carrying value of the long-lived assets less the cost to sell.

   In December 2000, the Company  announced it had intended to sell its bottling
operations in the Baltics to one of our strategic  business  partners.  However,
that  partner  was in the  process of an  internal  restructuring  and no longer
planned to  purchase  the Baltics  bottling  operations.  At that time,  another
suitable  buyer was not  identified  so the  Company  continued  to operate  the
Baltics  bottlers as consolidated  operations  until a new buyer was identified.
Subsequently,  in January  2002,  our Company  reached an  agreement to sell our
bottling operations in the Baltics to CCHBC in early 2002. The expected proceeds
from the sale of the Baltics  bottlers  are  approximately  equal to the current
carrying value of the investment.

   The  remainder  of the  $813  million  charges,  approximately  $74  million,
primarily  related to the change in senior  management  and  charges  related to
organizational changes within the Europe, Eurasia and Middle East, Latin America
and Corporate segments. These charges were incurred during the fourth quarter of
1999.

Operating Income and Operating Margin
On a consolidated  basis,  our operating  income increased 45 percent in 2001 to
$5,352  million.  This follows a decline of 7 percent in 2000 to $3,691 million.
The 2001 results  reflect an increase in gallon  shipments,  price  increases in
selected  countries,  the impact of  nonrecurring  charges in 2000 as previously
discussed under the heading "Other Operating  Charges" and the  consolidation of
the Nordic and  Brazilian  bottling  operations.  This is offset by the negative
impact of a stronger U.S.  dollar and the sale of our  previously  owned vending
operations in Japan and canning operations in Germany.  The 2000 results reflect
the recording of nonrecurring charges, as previously discussed under the heading
"Other  Operating  Charges,"  the  impact  of  the  stronger  U.S.  dollar,  the
consolidation  of F&N  Coca-Cola  and the  effect  of the  previously  discussed
reduction of  concentrate  inventory by certain  bottlers  within the  Coca-Cola
system,  which  was  completed  in the  first  half of  2000.  Our  consolidated
operating margin was 26.6 percent in 2001, 18.6 percent in 2000 and 20.6 percent
in 1999.

                                    Page 49

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

MARGIN ANALYSIS (Chart converted to table)

                                        2001             2000            1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>              <C>            <C>
Net Operating Revenues
   (in billions)                      $ 20.1           $ 19.9          $ 19.3
Gross Margin                            69.9%            68.8%           68.8%
Operating Margin                        26.6%            18.6%           20.6%

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>




Interest Income and Interest Expense
In 2001, our interest income decreased 6 percent due primarily to lower interest
rates. In 2000, our interest income increased 33 percent due primarily to higher
average cash balances and higher interest rates.  Interest expense  decreased 35
percent in 2001 due to both a decrease in average commercial paper debt balances
and lower  interest  rates.  In 2001,  the Company used free cash flow to reduce
commercial paper debt balances.  Interest  expense  increased 33 percent in 2000
due primarily to both an increase in average  commercial paper debt balances and
higher interest rates throughout the period.  Average 2000 commercial paper debt
balances  increased from 1999  primarily due to our  utilization of cash for the
Realignment,  as discussed under the heading "Other Operating  Charges," and the
impact on cash from the  reduction in  concentrate  inventory  levels by certain
bottlers, as discussed under the heading "Volume."

   In 2001, interest income exceeded interest expense. Interest income benefited
from cash invested in locations  outside the United States  earning higher rates
of  interest  than could be  obtained  within the United  States.  Our  interest
expense is primarily incurred on borrowings in the United States.

Equity Income (Loss)
In 2001, our Company's  share of income from equity method  investments  totaled
$152 million.  The increase in our Company's  share of income from equity method
investments  was  due  primarily  to  the  continued  improvement  in  operating
performance by the majority of our equity investees and the impact of impairment
charges on equity investees in 2000 as discussed below.

   As of January 1, 2001, Coca-Cola Enterprises changed its method of accounting
for infrastructure development payments received from the Company. Prior to this
change,   Coca-Cola   Enterprises   recognized  these  payments  as  offsets  to
incremental expenses of the programs in the periods in which they were incurred.
Coca-Cola  Enterprises now recognizes the  infrastructure  development  payments
received from the Company as  obligations  under the  contracts  are  performed.
Because the Company eliminates the financial effect of significant  intercompany
transactions (including transactions with equity method investees),  this change
in accounting method has no impact on the Consolidated  Financial  Statements of
our Company.  For a more complete  description of these  transactions,  refer to
Note 2 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

   In 2000, our Company's share of losses from equity method investments totaled
$289 million. This includes a nonrecurring charge of approximately $306 million,
which represents the Company's  portion of a charge recorded by Coca-Cola Amatil
to reduce the carrying value of its investment in the Philippines.  In addition,
Panamerican Beverages,  Inc. (Panamco) wrote down selected assets, including the
impairment of the value of its Venezuelan  operating unit. The Company's portion
of this charge was approximately  $124 million.  Also contributing to the equity
losses were nonrecurring charges recorded by investees in Eurasia and the Middle
East. These nonrecurring charges were partially offset by an overall improvement
in operating performance by our portfolio of bottlers and the positive impact of
lower tax rates on current and deferred taxes at CCEAG.

Other Income-Net
In 2001,  other  income-net  declined to $39  million  from $99 million in 2000,
primarily  reflecting  the impact of a gain  related to the merger of  Coca-Cola
Beverages and Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A. during the third quarter of 2000.
This merger resulted in a decrease of our Company's  equity  ownership  interest
from  approximately  50.5 percent of Coca-Cola  Beverages  to  approximately  24
percent of the combined  entity,  CCHBC. As a result of our Company's  decreased
equity  ownership,  a tax-free  non-cash gain of approximately  $118 million was
recognized.  In  2000,  this  gain  was  partially  offset  by  exchange  losses
recognized  versus  exchange  gains in 1999  attributable  to the hedging of our
resources in Brazil.

                                    Page 50


<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

Gains on Issuances of Stock by Equity Investees
At the time an equity  investee  issues its stock to third parties at a price in
excess of our book value,  our Company's  equity in the underlying net assets of
that  investee  increases.  We  generally  record an increase to our  investment
account and a corresponding gain in these transactions.  In July 2001, Coca-Cola
Enterprises   completed  its  acquisition  of  Hondo   Incorporated  and  Herbco
Enterprises,  Inc.,  collectively  known as Herb Coca-Cola.  The transaction was
valued at  approximately  $1.4  billion,  with  approximately  30 percent of the
transaction  funded with the  issuance  of  approximately  25 million  shares of
Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common stock,  and the remaining  portion funded through
debt and assumed debt.  The issuance of shares  resulted in a one-time  non-cash
pretax gain for our Company of approximately  $91 million.  This gain represents
the increase in our Company's equity in the underlying net assets of the related
investee.  No gains on issuances of stock by equity  investees  were recorded to
the  Consolidated  Statements of Income during 2000 or 1999. For a more complete
description of these transactions, refer to Note 3 in our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Income Taxes
Our effective tax rates were 29.8 percent in 2001, 36.0 percent in 2000 and 36.3
percent in 1999.  Our ongoing  effective tax rates reflect tax benefits  derived
from significant  operations outside the United States, which are taxed at rates
lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent.  The decrease in our effective
tax rate in 2001 was primarily due to effective tax planning and the impact that
the impairment  charges recorded in 2000 had on the 2000 effective tax rate. The
change in our effective tax rate in 2000 was primarily the result of our current
inability  to  realize a tax  benefit  associated  with the  impairment  charges
recorded in 2000, as previously  discussed under the headings  "Other  Operating
Charges" and "Equity Income  (Loss),"  partially  offset by the tax-free gain of
approximately  $118  million  related to the merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages  and
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A., previously discussed under the heading
"Other Income - Net." For a more complete description of our income taxes, refer
to Note 14 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

   During  the first  quarter  of 2000,  the  United  States  and  Japan  taxing
authorities entered into an Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) whereby the level of
royalties  paid by Coca-Cola  (Japan)  Company,  Ltd.  (our  Subsidiary)  to our
Company has been  established  for the years 1993 through 2001.  Pursuant to the
terms of the APA, our  Subsidiary  has filed amended  returns for the applicable
periods  reflecting the negotiated  royalty rate. These amended returns resulted
in the  payment  during  the first and  second  quarters  of 2000 of  additional
Japanese  taxes,  the effect of which on both our financial  performance and our
effective  tax rate was not material,  due  primarily to offsetting  tax credits
utilized on our U.S.  income tax return.  The  majority  of the  offsetting  tax
credits will be realized by the end of the first quarter of 2002.

   Management estimates that the effective tax rate for the year ending December
31, 2002 will be approximately 27.5 percent.

Income Per Share
Our basic net income per share increased by 82 percent in 2001, compared to a 10
percent decline in 2000. Diluted net income per share increased by 82 percent in
2001, compared to a 10 percent decline in 2000.

Recent Developments
In  November  2001,  our  Company  and CCBPI  entered  into a sale and  purchase
agreement with RFM Corp. to acquire its 83.2 percent interest in Cosmos Bottling
Corporation (CBC), a publicly traded Philippine beverage company. As of the date
of the agreement,  the Company began  supplying  concentrate for this operation.
The transaction valued CBC at 14 billion Philippine pesos, or approximately $270
million.  The purchase of RFM's  interest was  finalized on January 3, 2002 with
our Company receiving direct and indirect ownership totaling  approximately 62.3
percent.  A subsequent  tender offer was made to the  remaining  minority  share
owners and is expected to close in March 2002. The Company and CCBPI have agreed
to restructure  the operations of CBC upon  completion of the  acquisition.  The
restructuring  will result in the Company  owning all  acquired  trademarks  and
CCBPI owning all the acquired  bottling assets. No gain or loss is expected upon
completion of this restructuring.

   In  early  2002,  the  Company  entered  into  an  agreement  with  Coca-Cola
Enterprises  designed  to support  profitable  volume  growth of Company  brands
within  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  territories.  Under the terms of the agreement,
Coca-Cola   Enterprises   will  earn  cash  funding  as  they  achieve  mutually
established unit

                                    Page 51

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

case  volume  growth  targets.  The total cash  support  expected  to be paid to
Coca-Cola  Enterprises  under this  agreement  is $150  million in 2002 and $250
million in 2003.  Beginning in 2004, the expected annual cash support to be paid
to Coca-Cola  Enterprises under this agreement will be reduced each year through
2009 when the annual cash support  expected to be paid to Coca-Cola  Enterprises
will be $80 million. Beginning in 2009 and for each year thereafter, the support
expected  to be paid is $80  million  annually.  The  Company  will  expense the
funding as it is earned by Coca-Cola Enterprises. The agreement can be cancelled
by either  party at the end of a fiscal  year with at least six  months  notice.
During 2001,  the Company  also  entered into an agreement to provide  financial
support to Coca-Cola  Enterprises for introducing  certain Company brands within
Coca-Cola Enterprises' recently acquired Herb Coca-Cola  territories.  Under the
terms of this agreement,  the Company  expects to pay Coca-Cola  Enterprises $14
million annually in the years 2002 through 2008 and $11 million in 2009.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We believe  our  ability to  generate  cash from  operations  to reinvest in our
business is one of our fundamental  financial strengths.  We anticipate that our
operating  activities  in 2002 will  continue  to  provide us with cash flows to
assist in our business expansion and to meet our financial commitments.

Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is the cash remaining from operations after we have satisfied our
business  reinvestment  opportunities.  We focus on increasing free cash flow to
achieve our  objective of  maximizing  share-owner  value over time. We use free
cash flow along with  borrowings to pay dividends,  make share  repurchases  and
make acquisitions.

   The  consolidated  statements of our cash flows are summarized as follows (in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                               2001      2000      1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>       <C>      <C>
Cash flows provided by (used in):
        Operations                                 $ 4,110   $ 3,585   $ 3,883
        Business reinvestment                         (963)     (779)   (1,551)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Free Cash Flow                                       3,147     2,806     2,332
Cash flows (used in) provided by:
        Acquisitions,
        net of disposals                              (225)     (386)   (1,870)
        Share repurchases                             (277)     (133)      (15)
        Dividends                                   (1,791)   (1,685)   (1,580)
        Other financing activities                    (762)     (254)    1,124
        Exchange                                       (45)     (140)      (28)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Increase (decrease) in cash                        $    47   $   208   $   (37)
===============================================================================

</TABLE>

   In 2001, cash provided by operations amounted to $4,110 million, a 15 percent
increase  from 2000.  The  increase  was  primarily  due to solid 2001  business
results  partially  offset by a stronger  U.S.  dollar,  2000 being  unfavorably
impacted by the  previously  mentioned  planned  inventory  reduction by certain
bottlers  as  discussed  under  the  heading  "Volume,"  cash  payments  made to
separated  employees under the Realignment,  as well as additional  Japanese tax
payments made pursuant to the terms of the APA entered into by the United States
and Japan taxing  authorities.  Cash  provided by operations in 2000 amounted to
$3,585 million,  an 8 percent decrease from 1999. The decrease was primarily due
to 2000 being unfavorably impacted by the items mentioned above.

   In 2001,  net cash used in  investing  activities  increased  by $23  million
compared to 2000.  The increase was primarily the result of increased  purchases
of  property,  plant and  equipment;  the  acquisition  of the  Nordic  bottling
operations and other investing  activities such as the  acquisitions of Odwalla,
Inc. and Brazilian  bottling  operations.  This was offset by proceeds  received
from the sale of our Japan Vending operations.

   In 2000,  net cash used in investing  activities  decreased by $2,256 million
compared to 1999.  The  decrease was  primarily  the result of brand and bottler
acquisitions during 1999.

                                    Page 52


<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   Total capital  expenditures for property,  plant and equipment (including our
investments  in  information  technology)  and the  percentage  distribution  by
operating segment for 2001, 2000 and 1999 are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                               2001      2000      1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>       <C>     <C>
Capital expenditures                                 $ 769     $ 733   $ 1,069
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
North America (1)                                       44%       35%       25%
Africa                                                   1%        1%        2%
Europe, Eurasia
 & Middle East                                          14%       27%       21%
Latin America                                            5%        2%        6%
Asia                                                    14%       18%       30%
Corporate                                               22%       17%       16%
===============================================================================


<FN>
(1) Includes The Minute Maid Company
</FN>
</TABLE>

Financing Activities, Contractual Obligations and
Commercial Commitments
Our financing  activities  include net borrowings,  dividend  payments and share
issuances and repurchases.  Net cash used in financing activities totaled $2,830
million in 2001,  $2,072  million in 2000 and $471 million in 1999.  The changes
between 2001 and 2000 as well as between 2000 and 1999 were primarily due to the
use of free cash flow to pay down outstanding debt.

   Cash  used to  purchase  common  stock  for  treasury  under  the 1996  share
repurchase plan and employee stock award programs  totaled $277 million in 2001,
$133  million in 2000 and $15 million in 1999.  In 2000 and in 1999,  we did not
repurchase  any  shares  under the 1996 share  repurchase  plan.  As  previously
mentioned,  we expect that the Company's share  repurchases will be increased in
2002,  and we are currently  estimating a range of $750 million to $1 billion of
repurchases during the year.

   Commercial paper is our primary source of short-term  financing.  On December
31, 2001,  we had $3,361  million  outstanding  in commercial  paper  borrowings
compared to $4,549  million  outstanding  at the end of 2000,  a $1,188  million
decrease in borrowings. The 2001 decrease in commercial paper was due to the use
of free cash flow to pay down outstanding  debt. The Company's  commercial paper
borrowings normally mature less than three months from the date of issuance.  In
1999, as part of our Year 2000 plan, we increased the amount of commercial paper
borrowings with maturity dates greater than three months. The gross payments and
receipts of borrowings  greater than three months from the date of issuance have
been  included in the  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows.  On December 31,
2001,  we had  $2,468  million in lines of credit  and other  short-term  credit
facilities available, of which approximately $382 million was outstanding.

   On December 31, 2001, we had $1,219 million  outstanding  in long-term  debt,
compared to $835 million outstanding at the end of 2000, a $384 million increase
in borrowings.  These increased  borrowings were a result of the Company issuing
$500 million in 10-year  global  notes in March 2001.  This debt was incurred in
order to obtain funds at attractive rates available in 2001.  Current maturities
of  long-term  debt were $156  million as of December  31, 2001  compared to $21
million as of December  31, 2000,  an increase of $135  million.

   The Company's  contractual  obligations  and  commercial  commitments  are as
follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                                              2001
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                    <C>
Short-term loans and notes payable:
  Commercial paper borrowings                                          $ 3,361
  Lines of credit and other
    short-term borrowings                                                  382
Current maturities of long-term debt                                       156
Long-term debt                                                           1,219
Marketing commitments                                                    1,326
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contractual obligations                                                $ 6,444
===============================================================================
Contingent liability for guarantees of
 indebtedness owed to third parties                                    $   436
===============================================================================

</TABLE>

   For the year ended  December  31,  2001,  our  Company  generated  cash flows
provided by operating  activities of $4,110 million.  Management's  expectations
are that future cash flows provided by operating  activities  will be sufficient
to meet the Company's  contractual  obligations.  For further  discussion of the
above contractual  obligations and commercial  commitments,  refer to Notes 5, 6
and 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Exchange
Our  international  operations are subject to certain  opportunities  and risks,
including currency  fluctuations and government  actions. We closely monitor our
operations  in each country and seek to adopt  appropriate  strategies  that are
responsive to changing  economic and political  environments and to fluctuations
in foreign currencies.

                                    Page 53

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   We use approximately 59 functional currencies.  Due to our global operations,
weaknesses in some of these  currencies are often offset by strengths in others.
In 2001,  2000  and  1999,  the  weighted-average  exchange  rates  for  foreign
currencies in which the Company conducts operations (all operating  currencies),
and for certain individual currencies,  strengthened (weakened) against the U.S.
dollar as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                         2001      2000        1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>       <C>         <C>
All operating currencies                          (8)%      (5)%      Even
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Australian dollar                             (13)%      (8)%         3 %
   British pound                                  (5)%      (7)%        (2)%
   Canadian dollar                                (4)%    Even        Even
   French franc                                   (5)%     (14)%        (2)%
   German mark                                    (5)%     (14)%        (2)%
   Japanese yen                                  (11)%       4 %        15 %
=============================================================================
</TABLE>

   These  percentages do not include the effects of our hedging  activities and,
therefore,  do not reflect the actual impact of  fluctuations in exchange on our
operating  results.  Our  foreign  currency  management  program is  designed to
mitigate  over time a  portion  of the  impact of  exchange  on net  income  and
earnings per share.  The impact of a stronger U.S.  dollar reduced our operating
income by  approximately 5 percent in 2001 and  approximately 4 percent in 2000.
The negative trend from currencies on our 2002 operating  income,  including the
recent  devaluation  in  Argentina,  is expected  to  continue.

   Exchange gains  (losses)-net  amounted to $(9) million in 2001, $(12) million
in 2000 and $87 million in 1999,  and were  recorded in other  income-net in the
Consolidated  Statements of Income.  Exchange  gains  (losses)-net  includes the
remeasurement of certain currencies into functional  currencies and the costs of
hedging  certain  exposures  of  our  balance  sheet.

   Additional information concerning our hedging activities is presented in Note
9 in our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company  does not have  transactions,  arrangements  or  relationships  with
"special purpose" entities,  and the Company does not have any off balance sheet
debt.

FINANCIAL POSITION

Comparing  2001 to 2000,  the increase in prepaid  expenses and other assets was
primarily  due to the change in the carrying  value of  derivatives  and hedging
instruments  and amounts due from CCHBC of $146  million  related to the sale of
the Russian bottling operations. For further discussion,  refer to Note 2 of the
Consolidated  Financial Statements.  The decrease in cost method investments was
primarily due to the consolidation of our recently purchased  Brazilian bottling
operations  that had been classified as temporary cost method  investments.  The
increase in other assets was due to a higher cash  surrender  value of insurance
due to the pay off of  policy  loans.  The  increase  in  trademarks  and  other
intangible  assets was due  primarily  to  acquisitions  of brands and  bottling
operations during 2001.

   Comparing  2000 to 1999,  the carrying  value of our  investment in Coca-Cola
Amatil  decreased,  primarily as a result of a nonrecurring  charge  recorded by
Coca-Cola  Amatil  to  reduce  the  carrying  value  of  its  investment  in the
Philippines. The Company's portion of this charge was $306 million. The carrying
value of our investment in CCHBC decreased due to the impact of foreign currency
exchange partially offset by a gain of approximately $118 million related to the
merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages  and Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A.  during the
third  quarter of 2000.  The carrying  value of other  investments,  principally
bottling companies, decreased primarily due to a nonrecurring charge recorded by
Panamco to write down selected assets,  including the impairment of the value of
the  Venezuelan  operating  unit.  The decrease in the  carrying  value of other
equity  investments  was  also  impacted  by the  consolidation  in  2000 of F&N
Coca-Cola,  which was previously recorded as an equity investment.  The increase
in  other  assets  in  2000  is  primarily  due  to  an  increase  in  marketing
prepayments.  The increase in accounts  payable and accrued  expenses in 2000 is
due primarily to the accrual for the Realignment expenses.

EURO CONVERSION

In January 1999,  certain  member  countries of the European  Union  established
irrevocable,  fixed conversion  rates between their existing  currencies and the
European  Union's common currency (the euro).  The  introduction of the euro was
phased in over a period  ended  January 1, 2002,  when euro notes and coins came
into circulation. The replacement of other currencies with the euro did not have
and is not  expected  to  have  a  material  impact  on  our  operations  or our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                    Page 54


<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

IMPACT OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

Inflation  affects  the way we operate  in many  markets  around  the world.  In
general,  we are able to  increase  prices to  counteract  the  majority  of the
inflationary  effects of increasing costs and to generate  sufficient cash flows
to maintain our productive capability.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Effective  January 1, 2001, the Company  adopted SFAS No. 133,  "Accounting  for
Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities," as amended by SFAS No. 137 and
SFAS No. 138. As discussed  further in Note 9, the 2001  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  were  prepared in  accordance  with the  provisions of SFAS No. 133.
Prior years'  financial  statements  have not been  restated.  The 2000 and 1999
Consolidated   Financial   Statements  were  prepared  in  accordance  with  the
applicable  professional  literature for derivatives and hedging  instruments in
effect at that time.

   Effective  January 1, 2001,  our Company  adopted the  provisions of Emerging
Issues  Task  Force  (EITF)  Issue No.  00-14,  "Accounting  for  Certain  Sales
Incentives,"  and EITF Issue No.  00-22,  "Accounting  for  'Points' and Certain
Other  Time-Based or Volume-Based  Sales Incentive  Offers,  and Offers for Free
Products or Services to be Delivered  in the Future."  Both of these EITF Issues
provide additional  guidance relating to the income statement  classification of
certain  sales  incentives.  The  adoption of these EITF Issues  resulted in the
Company  reducing both net operating  revenues and selling,  administrative  and
general expenses by approximately $580 million in 2001, $569 million in 2000 and
$521  million  in 1999.  These  reclassifications  have no impact  on  operating
income.

   In April 2001, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-25,  "Vendor
Income Statement  Characterization  of  Consideration  Paid to a Reseller of the
Vendor's  Products."  EITF Issue No.  00-25,  which is effective for the Company
beginning January 1, 2002, will require certain selling expenses incurred by the
Company to be classified as deductions  from revenue.  With the adoption of this
EITF Issue,  we estimate  that  approximately  $2.6  billion of our  payments to
bottlers  and  customers   that  are  currently   classified   within   selling,
administrative  and general  expenses will be  reclassified  as deductions  from
revenue. In our 2002 Consolidated Financial Statements,  all comparative periods
will be reclassified.

   In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.
141,  "Business  Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets." SFAS No. 142 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2002.  Under
the new rules, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets will no longer be
amortized but will be reviewed  annually for impairment.  Intangible assets that
are not deemed to have an  indefinite  life will  continue to be amortized  over
their  useful  lives.

   The adoption of SFAS No. 142 requires that an initial  impairment  assessment
be performed on all goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. To complete
this assessment, the Company will compare the fair value to the current carrying
value of trademarks  and other  intangible  assets.  Fair values will be derived
using cash flow analysis.  The assumptions  used in this cash flow analysis will
be consistent with our internal  planning.  Any impairment charge resulting from
this initial assessment will be recorded as a cumulative effect of an accounting
change.  The Company  estimates the cumulative  effect of adopting this standard
will result in a non-cash  charge in the first quarter of 2002 of  approximately
$1 billion on a pretax basis.  This amount reflects  intangible  assets for both
the  Company  and  the  Company's  proportionate  share  of  its  equity  method
investees.  The  adoption  of this  new  standard  will  also  benefit  earnings
beginning  in 2002 by  approximately  $60 million in reduced  amortization  from
Company-owned  intangible  assets and  approximately  $150  million of increased
equity  income  relating to the  Company's  share of  amortization  savings from
equity method investees.

OUTLOOK

While we cannot predict future performance, we believe considerable
opportunities exist for sustained, profitable growth, not only in the developing
population centers of the world, but also in our most established markets.

   We  firmly  believe  that  the  strength  of  our  brands,  our  unparalleled
distribution system, our global presence, our strong financial condition and the
diversity  and skills of our people give us the  flexibility  to  capitalize  on
growth opportunities as we continue to pursue our goal of increasing share-owner
value over time.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain written and oral statements made by our Company and subsidiaries or with
the approval of an

                                    Page 55

<PAGE>

      FINANCIAL REVIEW INCORPORATING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


authorized  executive  officer of our  Company may  constitute  "forward-looking
statements"  as defined under the Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of
1995,  including  statements  made in this  report  and other  filings  with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission.  Generally,  the words "believe," "expect,"
"intend,"  "estimate,"  "anticipate,"  "project," "will" and similar expressions
identify  forward-looking  statements,  which  generally  are not  historical in
nature.   All  statements  which  address  operating   performance,   events  or
developments  that we expect or  anticipate  will occur in the  future-including
statements  relating to volume  growth,  share of sales and  earnings  per share
growth  and  statements  expressing  general  optimism  about  future  operating
results-are forward-looking  statements.  Forward-looking statements are subject
to certain  risks and  uncertainties  that could cause actual  results to differ
materially from our Company's historical experience and our present expectations
or projections. As and when made, management believes that these forward-looking
statements are reasonable.  However,  caution should be taken not to place undue
reliance on any such forward-looking statements since such statements speak only
as of the date when made.  The  Company  undertakes  no  obligation  to publicly
update or revise  any  forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

   The following  are some of the factors that could cause our Company's  actual
results  to  differ  materially  from  the  expected  results  described  in  or
underlying our Company's forward-looking statements:

   - Foreign currency rate  fluctuations,  interest rate  fluctuations and other
     capital  market  conditions.  Most of our  exposures  to  capital  markets,
     including   foreign   currency  and  interest  rates,   are  managed  on  a
     consolidated  basis,  which allows us to net certain  exposures  and, thus,
     take  advantage  of  any  natural  offsets.  We  use  derivative  financial
     instruments to reduce our net exposure to financial risks.  There can be no
     assurance,  however,  that our financial  risk  management  program will be
     successful in reducing capital market exposures.

   - Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment.  These include,
     without limitation,  changes in consumer  preferences,  competitive product
     and pricing pressures and our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in
     the global market as a result of actions by  competitors.  While we believe
     our  opportunities  for  sustained,  profitable  growth  are  considerable,
     factors such as these could impact our earnings,  share of sales and volume
     growth.

   - Adverse weather conditions, which could reduce demand for Company products.

   - Our ability to generate  sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion
     plans, share repurchase programs and general operating activities.

   - Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards,
     taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised
     tax law  interpretations)  and  environmental  laws in  domestic or foreign
     jurisdictions.

   - The effectiveness of our advertising, marketing and promotional programs.

   - Fluctuations in the cost and  availability of raw materials and the ability
     to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships.

   - Our ability to achieve  earnings  forecasts,  which are generated  based on
     projected  volumes and sales of many product types,  some of which are more
     profitable than others.  There can be no assurance that we will achieve the
     projected level or mix of product sales.

   - Economic and political  conditions,  especially in  international  markets,
     including  civil  unrest,  governmental  changes  and  restrictions  on the
     ability to transfer capital across borders.

   - Our  ability to  penetrate  developing  and  emerging  markets,  which also
     depends on economic and political  conditions,  and how well we are able to
     acquire or form strategic  business  alliances with local bottlers and make
     necessary    infrastructure    enhancements   to   production   facilities,
     distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply
     of products in  developing  markets  must match the  customers'  demand for
     those products,  and due to product price and cultural  differences,  there
     can be no assurance of product acceptance in any particular market.

   - The  uncertainties of litigation,  as well as other risks and uncertainties
     detailed  from  time to  time  in our  Company's  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission filings.

The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For  additional  information  about our  operations,  cash flows,  liquidity and
capital  resources,  please refer to the  information  on pages 57 through 84 of
this  report.  Additional  information  concerning  our  operating  segments  is
presented on pages 81 through 83.

                                    Page 56
<PAGE>

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                    2001           2000             1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions except per share data)
<S>                                     <C>             <C>              <C>

NET OPERATING REVENUES                 $ 20,092       $ 19,889         $ 19,284
- ----------------------
Cost of goods sold                        6,044          6,204            6,009
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GROSS PROFIT                             14,048         13,685           13,275
- ------------
Selling, administrative and general
 expenses                                 8,696          8,551            8,480
Other operating charges                       -          1,443              813
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME                          5,352          3,691            3,982
- ----------------
Interest income                             325            345              260
Interest expense                            289            447              337
Equity income (loss)                        152           (289)            (184)
Other income-net                             39             99               98
Gains on issuances of stock by
 equity investees                            91              -                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND
 CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE   5,670          3,399            3,819
- ---------------------------------------
Income taxes                              1,691          1,222            1,388
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT
 OF ACCOUNTING CHANGE                     3,979          2,177            2,431
- -------------------------------
Cumulative effect of accounting
 change, net of income taxes                (10)             -                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET INCOME                             $  3,969       $  2,177         $  2,431
================================================================================

BASIC NET INCOME PER SHARE
- --------------------------
Before accounting change               $   1.60       $    .88         $    .98
Cumulative effect of accounting change        -              -                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       $   1.60       $    .88         $    .98
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE
- ----------------------------
Before accounting change               $   1.60       $    .88         $    .98
Cumulative effect of accounting change        -              -                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       $   1.60       $    .88         $    .98
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING                2,487          2,477            2,469
- --------------------------
Dilutive effect of stock options              -             10               18
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING
 ASSUMING DILUTION                        2,487          2,487            2,487
================================================================================


<FN>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>

</TABLE>
                                     Page 57

<PAGE>

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                       2001                    2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions except share data)
<S>                                             <C>                    <C>

ASSETS
- ------

CURRENT
- -------
Cash and cash equivalents                      $  1,866                $  1,819
Marketable securities                                68                      73
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1,934                   1,892
Trade accounts receivable, less allowances
  of $59 in 2001 and $62 in 2000                  1,882                   1,757
Inventories                                       1,055                   1,066
Prepaid expenses and other assets                 2,300                   1,905
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                              7,171                   6,620
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS
- ----------------------------
Equity method investments
 Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.                         788                     707
 Coca-Cola Amatil Limited                           432                     617
 Coca-Cola HBC S.A.                                 791                     758
 Other, principally bottling companies            3,117                   3,164
Cost method investments, principally
   bottling companies                               294                     519
Other assets                                      2,792                   2,364
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  8,214                   8,129
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
- -----------------------------
Land                                                217                     225
Buildings and improvements                        1,812                   1,642
Machinery and equipment                           4,881                   4,547
Containers                                          195                     200
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  7,105                   6,614
Less allowances for depreciation                  2,652                   2,446
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  4,453                   4,168
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TRADEMARKS AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS            2,579                   1,917
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               $ 22,417                $ 20,834
================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                    Page 58

<PAGE>

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                       2001                    2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LIABILITIES AND SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY
- ------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>                    <C>

CURRENT
- -------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses          $  3,679                $  3,905
Loans and notes payable                           3,743                   4,795
Current maturities of long-term debt                156                      21
Accrued income taxes                                851                     600
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                         8,429                   9,321
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM DEBT                                    1,219                     835
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OTHER LIABILITIES                                   961                   1,004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DEFERRED INCOME TAXES                               442                     358
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY
- --------------------
Common stock, $.25 par value
 Authorized: 5,600,000,000 shares
 Issued: 3,491,465,016 shares in 2001;
         3,481,882,834 shares in 2000               873                     870
Capital surplus                                   3,520                   3,196
Reinvested earnings                              23,443                  21,265
Accumulated other comprehensive income and
 unearned compensation on restricted stock       (2,788)                 (2,722)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 25,048                  22,609

Less treasury stock, at cost
 (1,005,237,693 shares in 2001;
  997,121,427 shares in 2000)                    13,682                  13,293
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 11,366                   9,316
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               $ 22,417                $ 20,834
================================================================================


<FN>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                    Page 59

<PAGE>

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Year Ended December 31,                    2001           2000             1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions)
<S>                                     <C>             <C>             <C>

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
- --------------------
Net income                              $ 3,969        $ 2,177          $ 2,431
Depreciation and amortization               803            773              792
Deferred income taxes                        56              3               97
Equity income or loss, net of dividends     (54)           380              292
Foreign currency adjustments                (60)           196              (41)
Gains on issuances of stock by equity
  investees                                 (91)             -                -
Gains on sales of assets, including
  bottling interests                        (85)          (127)             (49)
Other operating charges                       -            916              799
Other items                                  34            119              119
Net change in operating assets and
  liabilities                              (462)          (852)            (557)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Net cash provided by operating
   activities                             4,110          3,585            3,883
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
- --------------------
Acquisitions and investments,
  principally trademarks
  and bottling companies                   (651)          (397)          (1,876)
Purchases of investments and other
  assets                                   (456)          (508)            (518)
Proceeds from disposals of investments
  and other assets                          455            290              176
Purchases of property, plant and
  equipment                                (769)          (733)          (1,069)
Proceeds from disposals of property,
  plant and equipment                        91             45               45
Other investing activities                  142            138             (179)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Net cash used in investing activities   (1,188)        (1,165)          (3,421)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
- --------------------
Issuances of debt                         3,011          3,671            3,411
Payments of debt                         (3,937)        (4,256)          (2,455)
Issuances of stock                          164            331              168
Purchases of stock for treasury            (277)          (133)             (15)
Dividends                                (1,791)        (1,685)          (1,580)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Net cash used in financing activities   (2,830)        (2,072)            (471)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                 (45)          (140)             (28)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
- -------------------------
Net increase (decrease) during the year      47            208              (37)
Balance at beginning of year              1,819          1,611            1,648
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Balance at end of year                 $ 1,866        $ 1,891          $ 1,611
================================================================================

<FN>
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

                                    Page 60

<PAGE>

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHARE-OWNERS' EQUITY

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                            Number of    |                                                     Accumulated
                               Common    |                                     Outstanding           Other
Three Years Ended              Shares    | Common     Capital     Reinvested    Restricted   Comprehensive    Treasury
December 31, 2001         Outstanding    |  Stock     Surplus       Earnings         Stock          Income       Stock      Total
<S>                             <C>         <C>       <C>           <C>             <C>           <C>        <C>         <C>
- -----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         |
(In millions except per share data)      |

BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1998       2,466    |  $ 865     $ 2,195       $ 19,922        $  (84)       $ (1,350)  $ (13,145)  $  8,403
- -------------------------                |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          2,431             -               -           -      2,431
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -            (190)          -       (190)
  Net change in unrealized               |
   gain (loss) on securities        -    |      -           -              -             -              23           -         23
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -              25           -         25
                                         |                                                                                 ------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                  2,289
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options           6    |      2         166              -             -               -           -        168
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -          72              -             -               -           -         72
Restricted stock and other stock         |
 plans, less amortizatization of         |
 $27                                -    |      -           5              -            25               -           -         30
Stock issued by an equity                |
 investee                           -    |      -         146              -             -               -           -        146
Purchases of stock for treasury     -    |      -           -              -             -               -         (15)       (15)
Dividends (per share -- $.64)       -    |      -           -         (1,580)            -               -           -     (1,580)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1999       2,472    |    867       2,584         20,773           (59)         (1,492)    (13,160)     9,513
- -------------------------                |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          2,177             -               -           -      2,177
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -            (965)          -       (965)
  Net change in unrealized               |
   gain (loss) on securities        -    |      -           -              -             -             (60)          -        (60)
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -             (10)          -        (10)
                                         |                                                                                 -------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                  1,142
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options          12    |      2         329              -             -               -           -        331
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -         116              -             -               -           -        116
Restricted stock and other stock         |
 plans, less amortizatization of         |
 $24                                3    |      1         167              -          (136)              -           -         32
Purchases of stock for treasury    (2)(1)|      -           -              -             -               -        (133)      (133)
Dividends (per share -- $.68)       -    |      -           -         (1,685)            -               -           -     (1,685)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2000       2,485    |    870       3,196         21,265          (195)         (2,527)    (13,293)     9,316
- -------------------------                |
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:                    |
  Net income                        -    |      -           -          3,969             -               -           -      3,969
  Translation adjustments           -    |      -           -              -             -            (207)          -       (207)
  Cumulative effect of SFAS No. 133 -    |      -           -              -             -              50           -         50
  Net gain (loss) on derivatives    -    |      -           -              -             -              92           -         92
  Net change in unrealized gain          |
   (loss) on securities             -    |      -           -              -             -             (29)          -        (29)
  Minimum pension liability         -    |      -           -              -             -             (17)          -        (17)
                                         |
                                         |                                                                                 ------
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME                     |                                                                                  3,858
Stock issued to employees                |
 exercising stock options           7    |      2         162              -             -               -           -        164
Tax benefit from employees'              |
 stock option and restricted             |
 stock plans                        -    |      -          58              -             -               -           -         58
Restricted stock and other               |
 stock plans, less cancellations    -    |      1         132              -           (24)              -        (112)        (3)
Amortization of restricted stock    -    |      -           -              -            41               -           -         41
Unearned restricted stock                |
 adjustment                         -    |      -         (28)             -            28               -           -          -
Purchases of stock for treasury    (6)(1)|      -           -              -             -               -        (277)      (277)
Dividends (per share -- $.72)       -    |      -           -         (1,791)            -               -           -     (1,791)
- -----------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2001       2,486    |  $ 873     $ 3,520       $ 23,443        $ (150)       $ (2,638)  $ (13,682)  $ 11,366
====================================================================================================================================


<FN>
(1) Common stock purchased from employees exercising stock options numbered .3
    million, 2.2 million and .3 million shares for the years ended December 31,
    2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                    Page 61


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

NOTE 1: ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Organization
The  Coca-Cola  Company,  together  with its  subsidiaries,  (the Company or our
Company)  is   predominantly  a   manufacturer,   marketer  and  distributor  of
nonalcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups. Operating in nearly 200 countries
worldwide, we primarily sell our concentrates and syrups to bottling and canning
operations,  fountain  wholesalers  and fountain  retailers.  We also market and
distribute juice and juice-drink  products.  We have significant markets for our
products in all the world's  geographic  regions.  We record  revenue when title
passes to our bottling partners or our customers.

Basis of Presentation
Certain amounts in the prior years' financial  statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current year presentation.

Consolidation
Our  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  include the accounts of The  Coca-Cola
Company and all subsidiaries  except where control is temporary or does not rest
with our Company.  Our  investments in companies in which we have the ability to
exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies,  including
certain investments where there is a temporary majority interest,  are accounted
for by the equity method.  Accordingly,  our Company's share of the net earnings
of these  companies is included in consolidated  net income.  Our investments in
other  companies  are  carried  at cost  or  fair  value,  as  appropriate.  All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions,  including transactions with
equity method investees, are eliminated from our financial results.

Recoverability of Investments
Management   periodically   assesses  the   recoverability   of  our   Company's
investments.  For publicly traded  investments,  the fair value of our Company's
investment  is  readily   determinable   based  on  quoted  market  prices.  For
non-publicly traded investments,  management's assessment of fair value is based
on our analysis of the investee's  estimates of future operating results and the
resulting  cash flows.  If an  investment  is  considered to be impaired and the
decline in value is other than temporary, an appropriate write-down is recorded.


Issuances of Stock by Equity Investees
When one of our equity investees issues additional shares to third parties,  our
percentage  ownership  interest  in the  investee  decreases.  In the  event the
issuance  price per share is more or less than our average  carrying  amount per
share, we recognize a non-cash gain or loss on the issuance.  This non-cash gain
or loss, net of any deferred taxes, is generally recognized in our net income in
the period the change of ownership interest occurs.

   If gains have been previously recognized on issuances of an equity investee's
stock and shares of the equity  investee  are  subsequently  repurchased  by the
equity investee,  gain recognition does not occur on issuances subsequent to the
date of a repurchase  until shares have been issued in an amount  equivalent  to
the number of  repurchased  shares.  This type of transaction is reflected as an
equity  transaction  and  the  net  effect  is  reflected  in  the  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets. For specific transaction details, refer to Note 3.

Advertising Costs
Our  Company  expenses   production   costs  of  print,   radio  and  television
advertisements as of the first date the advertisements  take place.  Advertising
expenses  included in selling,  administrative  and general expenses were $1,970
million  in 2001,  $1,655  million in 2000 and  $1,609  million  in 1999.  As of
December 31, 2001 and 2000,  advertising  production costs of approximately  $52
million  and $69  million,  respectively,  were  recorded  primarily  in prepaid
expenses  and other  assets  and  noncurrent  other  assets in the  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Net Income Per Share
Basic  net  income  per  share  is  computed  by  dividing  net  income  by  the
weighted-average  number of shares  outstanding.  Diluted  net  income per share
includes the dilutive effect of stock options.

Cash Equivalents
Marketable securities that are highly liquid and have maturities of three months
or less at the date of purchase are classified as cash equivalents.

Inventories
Inventories  consist  primarily of raw  materials and supplies and are valued at
the lower of cost or market.  In  general,  cost is  determined  on the basis of
average cost or first-in, first-out methods.

                                    Page 62


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and are depreciated principally
by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Other Assets
Our  Company  invests in  infrastructure  programs  with our  bottlers  that are
directed at  strengthening  our bottling  system and increasing unit case sales.
Additionally,  our Company advances  payments to certain customers for marketing
to fund activities  intended to generate volume.  Advance payments are also made
to certain  customers for distribution  rights.  The costs of these programs are
recorded in other assets and are  subsequently  amortized over the periods to be
directly  benefited.  Management  periodically  evaluates the  recoverability of
these assets by preparing estimates of sales volume, the resulting gross profit,
cash flows and other factors.

Trademarks and Other Intangible Assets
Trademarks and other  intangible  assets are stated on the basis of cost and are
amortized,  principally  on a  straight-line  basis,  over the estimated  future
periods  to  be  benefited  (not  exceeding  40  years).  Trademarks  and  other
intangible  assets are  periodically  reviewed for impairment to ensure they are
appropriately  valued.  Conditions that may indicate an impairment  issue exists
include an economic downturn in a market or a change in the assessment of future
operations.  In the event that a condition  is  identified  that may indicate an
impairment  issue  exists,  an  assessment  is  performed  using  a  variety  of
methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates of sales proceeds and
independent  appraisals.  Where  applicable,  an  appropriate  interest  rate is
utilized, based on location-specific economic factors.  Accumulated amortization
was  approximately  $285 million and $192 million on December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

Use of Estimates
In conformity with generally accepted accounting principles,  the preparation of
our  financial   statements  requires  our  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions  that affect the amounts  reported in our financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes  including  our  assessment  of the  carrying  value  of our
investments in bottling  operations.  Although these  estimates are based on our
knowledge of current  events and actions we may undertake in the future,  actual
results may ultimately differ from estimates.

New Accounting Standards
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  (SFAS) No. 133,  "Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging
Activities,"  as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. As discussed  further
in  Note  9,  the  2001  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  were  prepared  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  SFAS  No.  133.  Prior  years'  financial
statements  have not been  restated.  As required by SFAS No. 133,  the 2000 and
1999  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  were prepared in accordance  with the
applicable  professional  literature for derivatives and hedging  instruments in
effect at that time.

   Effective  January 1, 2001,  our Company  adopted the  provisions of Emerging
Issues  Task  Force  (EITF)  Issue No.  00-14,  "Accounting  for  Certain  Sales
Incentives,"  and EITF Issue No.  00-22,  "Accounting  for  'Points' and Certain
Other  Time-Based or Volume-Based  Sales Incentive  Offers,  and Offers for Free
Products or Services to be Delivered  in the Future."  Both of these EITF Issues
provide additional  guidance relating to the income statement  classification of
certain  sales  incentives.  The  adoption of these EITF Issues  resulted in the
Company  reducing both net operating  revenues and selling,  administrative  and
general expenses by approximately $580 million in 2001, $569 million in 2000 and
$521  million  in 1999.  These  reclassifications  have no impact  on  operating
income.

   In April 2001, the EITF reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-25,  "Vendor
Income Statement  Characterization  of  Consideration  Paid to a Reseller of the
Vendor's  Products."  EITF Issue No.  00-25,  which is effective for the Company
beginning January 1, 2002, will require certain selling expenses incurred by the
Company to be classified as deductions  from revenue.  With the adoption of this
EITF Issue,  we estimate  that  approximately  $2.6  billion of our  payments to
bottlers  and  customers   that  are  currently   classified   within   selling,
administrative  and general  expenses will be  reclassified  as deductions  from
revenue. In our 2002 Consolidated Financial Statements,  all comparative periods
will be reclassified.

   In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.
141,  "Business  Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets." SFAS No. 142 is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2002.  Under
the new rules, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets will no

                                    Page 63


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

longer be amortized  but will be reviewed  annually for  impairment.  Intangible
assets  that are not  deemed  to have an  indefinite  life will  continue  to be
amortized over their useful lives.

   The adoption of SFAS No. 142 requires that an initial  impairment  assessment
is performed on all goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. To complete
this assessment, the Company will compare the fair value to the current carrying
value of trademarks  and other  intangible  assets.  Fair values will be derived
using cash flow analysis.  The assumptions  used in this cash flow analysis will
be consistent with our internal  planning.  Any impairment charge resulting from
this initial assessment will be recorded as a cumulative effect of an accounting
change.  The Company  estimates the cumulative  effect of adopting this standard
will result in a non-cash  charge in the first quarter of 2002 of  approximately
$1 billion on a pretax basis.  This amount reflects  intangible  assets for both
the  Company  and  the  Company's  proportionate  share  of  its  equity  method
investees.  The  adoption  of this  new  standard  will  also  benefit  earnings
beginning  in 2002 by  approximately  $60 million in reduced  amortization  from
Company-owned  intangible  assets and  approximately  $150  million of increased
equity  income  relating to the  Company's  share of  amortization  savings from
equity method investees.

NOTE 2: BOTTLING INVESTMENTS

Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
Coca-Cola  Enterprises Inc.  (Coca-Cola  Enterprises) is the largest  soft-drink
bottler in the world,  operating in eight  countries.  On December 31, 2001, our
Company  owned  approximately  38 percent  of the  outstanding  common  stock of
Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  and  accordingly,  we account for our investment by the
equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2001, our proportionate share of
the net assets of Coca-Cola Enterprises exceeded our investment by approximately
$283  million.  This  excess  is  amortized  over a period  consistent  with the
applicable useful life of the underlying transactions.

   A summary of financial  information  for Coca-Cola  Enterprises is as follows
(in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                                  2001         2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>
Current assets                                            $  2,876     $  2,631
Noncurrent assets                                           20,843       19,531
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total assets                                            $ 23,719     $ 22,162
================================================================================
Current liabilities                                       $  4,522     $  3,094
Noncurrent liabilities                                      16,377       16,234
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities                                       $ 20,899     $ 19,328
================================================================================
Share-owners' equity                                      $  2,820     $  2,834
================================================================================
Company equity investment                                 $    788     $    707
================================================================================

Year Ended December 31,                         2001          2000         1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net operating revenues                      $ 15,700      $ 14,750     $ 14,406
Cost of goods sold                             9,740         9,083        9,015
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                $  5,960      $  5,667     $  5,391
================================================================================
Operating income                            $    601      $  1,126     $    839
================================================================================
Cash operating profit (1)                   $  1,954      $  2,387     $  2,187
================================================================================
Cumulative effect of
  accounting change                         $    302      $      -     $      -
================================================================================
Net income (loss)                           $   (321)     $    236     $     59
================================================================================
Net income (loss) available
  to common share owners                    $   (324)     $    233     $     56
================================================================================



<FN>

(1) Cash operating  profit is defined as operating  income plus  depreciation
expense, amortization expense and other non-cash operating expenses.
</FN>
</TABLE>

   Our net  concentrate  and  syrup  sales to  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were $3.9
billion in 2001, $3.5 billion in 2000 and $3.3 billion in 1999, or approximately
19 percent,  18 percent and 17 percent of our 2001,  2000 and 1999 net operating
revenues,  respectively.  Coca-Cola Enterprises purchases sweeteners through our
Company; however, related collections from Coca-Cola Enterprises and payments to
suppliers  are not  included in our  Consolidated  Statements  of Income.  These
transactions  amounted to $295  million in 2001,  $298  million in 2000 and $308
million in 1999. We also provide  certain  administrative  and other services to
Coca-Cola Enterprises under negotiated fee arrangements.

   Cash payments made directly to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  for support of certain
marketing activities and participation with them in cooperative  advertising and
other marketing  programs amounted to approximately  $606 million,  $533 million
and $525  million  in 2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  Cash  payments  made
directly to Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  customers for support of certain  marketing
activities and programs amounted to approximately $282 million,

                                    Page 64

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

$221 million and $242 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.  Pursuant to
cooperative  advertising  and trade  agreements with Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  we
received approximately $252 million, $195 million and $243 million in 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively, from Coca-Cola Enterprises for local media and marketing
program expense reimbursements.

   Our Company  enters into  programs  with  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  designed to
assist their development of the cold drink infrastructure. Under these programs,
our Company made payments to Coca-Cola  Enterprises for a portion of the cost of
developing the  infrastructure  necessary to support  accelerated  placements of
cold drink  equipment.  These payments  support a common  objective of increased
sales of Coca-Cola beverages from increased  availability and consumption in the
cold drink channel.  In connection  with these programs,  Coca-Cola  Enterprises
agrees to: (1) purchase and place specified numbers of  vendors/coolers  or cold
drink  equipment  each year through 2008; (2) maintain the equipment in service,
with certain exceptions,  for a period of at least 12 years after placement; (3)
maintain and stock the equipment in accordance with specified standards; and (4)
report to our Company minimum  average annual unit case sales volume  throughout
the economic life of the equipment.

   Coca-Cola Enterprises must achieve minimum average unit case sales volume for
a 12-year  period  following the placement of equipment.  These minimum  average
unit case  sales  volume  levels  ensure  adequate  gross  profit  from sales of
concentrate  to  fully  recover  the  capitalized  costs  plus a  return  on the
Company's  investment.   Should  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  fail  to  purchase  the
specified  numbers of  vendors/coolers  or cold drink equipment for any calendar
year through 2008, the parties agree to mutually develop a reasonable  solution.
Should no  mutually  agreeable  solution  be  developed,  or in the  event  that
Coca-Cola  Enterprises  otherwise  breaches  any material  obligation  under the
contracts and such breach is not remedied within a stated period, then Coca-Cola
Enterprises  would be  required  to repay a portion  of the  support  funding as
determined by our Company. No repayments by Coca-Cola Enterprises have ever been
made under these  programs.  Our Company paid or committed to pay  approximately
$159  million,   $223  million  and  $338  million  in  2001,   2000  and  1999,
respectively,  to Coca-Cola  Enterprises in connection with these infrastructure
programs.  These payments are recorded as other assets and amortized as a charge
to earnings over the 12-year  period  following the placement of the  equipment.
Amounts recorded in other assets were  approximately $931 million as of December
31, 2001. For 2002 and thereafter,  the Company has no further commitments under
these programs.

   As of January 1, 2001, Coca-Cola Enterprises changed its method of accounting
for infrastructure development payments received from the Company. Prior to this
change,   Coca-Cola   Enterprises   recognized  these  payments  as  offsets  to
incremental expenses of the programs in the periods in which they were incurred.
Coca-Cola  Enterprises now recognizes the  infrastructure  development  payments
received from the Company as  obligations  under the  contracts  are  performed.
Because the Company eliminates the financial effect of significant  intercompany
transactions (including transactions with equity method investees),  this change
in accounting method has no impact on the Consolidated  Financial  Statements of
our Company.

   Our  Company  and  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  reached  an  agreement  in 2000 to
transfer all  responsibilities  and the  associated  staffing for major customer
marketing (CMG) efforts to Coca-Cola  Enterprises from our Company and for local
media activities from Coca-Cola Enterprises to our Company. Under the agreement,
our  Company  reimburses  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  for  the  CMG  staffing  costs
transferred to Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  and Coca-Cola Enterprises reimburses our
Company for the local media staffing costs  transferred to our Company.  Amounts
reimbursed  to Coca-Cola  Enterprises  by our Company for CMG staffing  expenses
were  $25  million  and $3  million  for 2001 and  2000,  respectively.  Amounts
reimbursed to our Company for local media staffing expenses were $16 million for
2001.

   The  difference  between our  proportionate  share of Coca-Cola  Enterprises'
income  available  to common  share owners and the  Company's  equity  income in
Coca-Cola  Enterprises is primarily  related to the elimination of the financial
effect of intercompany transactions between the two companies.

   If valued  at the  December  31,  2001,  quoted  closing  price of  Coca-Cola
Enterprises  shares,  the  value  of our  investment  in  Coca-Cola  Enterprises
exceeded its carrying value by approximately $2.4 billion.

                                    Page 65


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

Other Equity Investments
Operating  results  include our  proportionate  share of income  (loss) from our
equity  investments.   A  summary  of  financial   information  for  our  equity
investments in the aggregate,  other than Coca-Cola  Enterprises,  is as follows
(in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                                 2001          2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>
Current assets                                           $  6,013      $  5,985
Noncurrent assets                                          17,879        19,030
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total assets                                            $ 23,892      $ 25,015
================================================================================
Current liabilities                                      $  5,085      $  5,419
Noncurrent liabilities                                      7,806         8,357
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities                                      $ 12,891      $ 13,776
================================================================================
Share-owners' equity                                     $ 11,001      $ 11,239
================================================================================
Company equity investment                                $  4,340      $  4,539
================================================================================

Year Ended December 31,                    2001            2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net operating revenues (1)             $ 19,955        $ 21,423        $ 19,605
Cost of goods sold                       11,413          13,014          12,085
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit (1)                       $  8,542        $  8,409        $  7,520
================================================================================
Operating income (loss)                $  1,770        $    (24)       $    809
================================================================================
Cash operating profit (2)              $  3,171        $  2,796        $  2,474
================================================================================
Net income (loss)                      $    735        $   (894)       $   (134)
================================================================================



<FN>
Equity investments include non-bottling investees.
(1) 2000 and 1999 Net operating revenues and Gross profit have been reclassified
for EITF Issue No. 00-14 and EITF Issue No. 00-22.
(2) Cash  operating  profit is defined as  operating  income  plus  depreciation
expense, amortization expense and other non-cash operating expenses.

</FN>
</TABLE>

   Net sales to equity  investees  other than  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  were $3.7
billion in 2001,  $3.5 billion in 2000 and $3.2 billion in 1999.  Total  support
payments,  primarily  marketing,  made to equity  investees other than Coca-Cola
Enterprises,  the majority of which are located outside the United States,  were
approximately  $636  million,  $663 million and $685 million for 2001,  2000 and
1999, respectively.

   In February  2001,  the  Company  reached an  agreement  with  Carlsberg  A/S
(Carlsberg) for the dissolution of Coca-Cola  Nordic  Beverages  (CCNB), a joint
venture bottler in which our Company had a 49 percent  ownership.  In July 2001,
our Company and San Miguel  Corporation (San Miguel) acquired Coca-Cola Bottlers
Philippines (CCBPI) from Coca-Cola Amatil Limited (Coca-Cola Amatil).

   In November 2001,  our Company sold nearly all of its ownership  interests in
various  Russian   bottling   operations  to  Coca-Cola  HBC  S.A.  (CCHBC)  for
approximately  $170 million in cash and notes receivable,  of which $146 million
in  notes  receivable  remained  outstanding  as of  December  31,  2001.  These
interests  consisted of the Company's 40 percent  ownership  interest in a joint
venture with CCHBC that operates  bottling  territories  in Siberia and parts of
Western  Russia,  together  with our Company's  nearly 100 percent  interests in
bottling operations with territories covering the remainder of Russia.

   In July 2000, a merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages plc (Coca-Cola  Beverages) and
Hellenic  Bottling  Company S.A.  was  completed  to create  CCHBC.  This merger
resulted  in  a  decrease  in  our  Company's  equity  ownership  interest  from
approximately 50.5 percent of Coca-Cola Beverages to approximately 24 percent of
the combined entity, CCHBC.

   In July 1999,  we  acquired  from  Fraser  and Neave  Limited  its  ownership
interest in F&N Coca-Cola Pte Limited.

   If valued at the December 31, 2001,  quoted closing prices of shares actively
traded on stock markets,  the value of our equity investments in publicly traded
bottlers  other  than  Coca-Cola  Enterprises  exceeded  our  carrying  value by
approximately $800 million.

NOTE 3: ISSUANCES OF STOCK BY
EQUITY INVESTEES

In  July  2001,  Coca-Cola   Enterprises  completed  its  acquisition  of  Hondo
Incorporated and Herbco Enterprises, Inc., collectively known as Herb Coca-Cola.
The transaction was valued at approximately $1.4 billion,  with approximately 30
percent of the transaction  funded with the issuance of approximately 25 million
shares of Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common stock, and the remaining portion funded
through debt and assumed debt. The Coca-Cola Enterprises common stock issued was
valued in an amount  greater than the book value per share of our  investment in
Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  The shares issued  combined with other share  issuances
exceeded the amount of repurchased  shares under  Coca-Cola  Enterprises'  share
repurchase  plan.  As a result,  the  issuance  of these  shares  resulted  in a
one-time non-cash pretax gain for our Company of approximately  $91 million.  We
provided  deferred  taxes  of  approximately  $36  million  on this  gain.  This
transaction reduced our ownership in Coca-Cola Enterprises from approximately 40
percent to  approximately  38 percent.

   No gains on issuances of stock by equity investees were recorded during 2000.
In the first quarter of 1999, Coca-Cola Enterprises completed its acquisition of
various bottlers. These transactions were funded primarily

                                    Page 66


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

with shares of Coca-Cola  Enterprises  common stock.  The Coca-Cola  Enterprises
common  stock  issued  was valued in an amount  greater  than the book value per
share  of  our  investment  in  Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  As a  result  of  these
transactions,  our equity in the underlying net assets of Coca-Cola  Enterprises
increased,  and we recorded a $241 million increase to our Company's  investment
basis in Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  Due to Coca-Cola Enterprises' share repurchase
program, the increase in our investment in Coca-Cola Enterprises was recorded as
an equity  transaction,  and no gain was recognized.  We recorded a deferred tax
liability of  approximately  $95 million on this  increase to our  investment in
Coca-Cola  Enterprises.  These  transactions  reduced our ownership in Coca-Cola
Enterprises from approximately 42 percent to approximately 40 percent.

NOTE 4: ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND
ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


December 31,                                               2001            2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>
Accrued marketing                                       $ 1,160         $ 1,163
Container deposits                                           84              58
Accrued compensation                                        202             141
Sales, payroll and other taxes                              148             166
Accrued realignment expenses                                 59             254
Accounts payable and
  other accrued expenses                                  2,026           2,123
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        $ 3,679         $ 3,905
================================================================================

</TABLE>


NOTE 5:  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND
CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

Loans and notes  payable  consist  primarily of  commercial  paper issued in the
United  States.  On December  31,  2001,  we had  approximately  $3,361  million
outstanding in commercial paper borrowings.  In addition,  we had $2,468 million
in lines of credit and other short-term  credit facilities  available,  of which
approximately $382 million was outstanding.  Our weighted-average interest rates
for commercial paper outstanding were  approximately 1.9 percent and 6.7 percent
at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

   These facilities are subject to normal banking terms and conditions.  Some of
the  financial  arrangements  require  compensating  balances,  none of which is
presently significant to our Company.

NOTE 6: LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt consists of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                              2001            2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>              <C>
6 5/8% U.S. dollar notes due 2002                      $   150           $ 150
6% U.S. dollar notes due 2003                              150             150
5 3/4% U.S. dollar notes due 2009                          399             399
5 3/4% U.S. dollar notes due 2011                          498               -
7 3/8% U.S. dollar notes due 2093                          116             116
Other, due 2002 to 2013                                     62              41
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         1,375             856
Less current portion                                       156              21
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       $ 1,219           $ 835
================================================================================

</TABLE>

   After giving effect to interest rate  management  instruments,  the principal
amount  of our  long-term  debt  that had fixed  and  variable  interest  rates,
respectively, was $1,262 million and $113 million on December 31, 2001, and $706
million and $150  million on December 31, 2000.  The  weighted-average  interest
rate on our  Company's  long-term  debt was 5.8  percent and 5.9 percent for the
years ended  December 31, 2001 and 2000,  respectively.  Total interest paid was
approximately  $304  million,  $458 million and $314  million in 2001,  2000 and
1999, respectively.  For a more complete discussion of interest rate management,
refer to Note 9.

   Maturities of long-term debt for the five years succeeding December 31, 2001,
are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

   2002             2003             2004             2005                2006
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  <S>              <C>               <C>              <C>                 <C>
  $ 156            $ 155             $  2             $  1                $  1
================================================================================

</TABLE>


   The above notes  include  various  restrictions,  none of which is  presently
significant to our Company.


NOTE 7:  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  (AOCI)  consists of the following (in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                              2001            2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Foreign currency
  translation adjustment                              $ (2,682)       $ (2,475)
Accumulated derivative net gains                           142               -
Unrealized gain (loss) on
  available-for-sale securities                            (55)            (26)
Minimum pension liability                                  (43)            (26)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      $ (2,638)       $ (2,527)
================================================================================

</TABLE>


                                    Page 67
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   A summary of the components of other comprehensive income for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, is as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    Before-Tax       Income          After-Tax
December 31,                            Amount          Tax             Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>              <C>
2001
- ----
Net foreign currency
  translation                           $ (285)        $ 78             $ (207)
Cumulative effect of
  adopting SFAS
  No. 133, net                              83          (33)                50
Net gain (loss) on
  derivative financial
  instruments                              151          (59)                92
Net change in
  unrealized gain (loss)
  on available-for-sale
  securities                               (39)          10                (29)
Minimum pension
  liability                                (27)          10                (17)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                         $ (117)        $  6             $ (111)
================================================================================

                                    Before-Tax       Income          After-Tax
December 31,                            Amount          Tax             Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2000
- ----
Net foreign currency
  translation                          $(1,074)       $ 109            $  (965)
Net change in
  unrealized gain (loss)
  on available-for-sale
  securities                               (90)          30                (60)
Minimum pension
  liability                                (17)           7                (10)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                        $(1,181)       $ 146            $(1,035)
================================================================================

                                    Before-Tax       Income          After-Tax
December 31,                            Amount          Tax             Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1999
- ----
Net foreign currency
  translation                          $  (249)       $  59            $  (190)
Net change in
  unrealized gain (loss)
  on available-for-sale
  securities                                37          (14)                23
Minimum pension
  liability                                 38          (13)                25
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other comprehensive
  income (loss)                        $  (174)       $  32            $  (142)
================================================================================

</TABLE>

NOTE 8: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for cash, cash
equivalents, marketable equity securities, cost method investments, receivables,
loans and notes payable and long-term debt  approximate  their  respective  fair
values.  Fair values are based  primarily on quoted  prices for those or similar
instruments.  Fair values for our derivative financial  instruments are included
in Note 9.

Certain Debt and Marketable Equity Securities
Investments in debt and marketable  equity  securities,  other than  investments
accounted  for  by  the  equity  method,  are  categorized  as  either  trading,
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. On December 31, 2001 and 2000, we had no
trading securities.  Securities  categorized as available-for-sale are stated at
fair value,  with  unrealized  gains and losses,  net of deferred  income taxes,
reported as a component of AOCI. Debt securities categorized as held-to-maturity
are stated at amortized cost.

                                    Page 68

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   On  December  31,  2001 and  2000,  available-for-sale  and  held-to-maturity
securities consisted of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Gross           Gross          Estimated
                                 Unrealized      Unrealized               Fair
December 31,            Cost          Gains          Losses              Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>              <C>           <C>                 <C>
2001
- ----
Available-for-sale
 securities
  Equity securities  $   251           $ 43          $ (116)           $   178
  Collateralized
   mortgage
   obligations            13              -              (1)                12
  Other debt
   securities             19              -               -                 19
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     $   283           $ 43          $ (117)           $   209
================================================================================

Held-to-maturity
 securities
  Bank and
   corporate debt    $   978           $  -          $    -            $   978
  Other debt
   securities              8              -               -                  8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     $   986           $  -          $    -            $   986
================================================================================


                                      Gross           Gross          Estimated
                                 Unrealized      Unrealized               Fair
December 31,            Cost          Gains          Losses              Value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2000
- ----
Available-for-sale
 securities
  Equity securities  $   248           $ 57          $  (90)           $   215
  Collateralized
   mortgage
   obligations            25              -              (2)                23
  Other debt
   securities             15              -               -                 15
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     $   288           $ 57          $  (92)           $   253
================================================================================


Held-to-maturity
 securities
  Bank and
   corporate debt    $ 1,115           $  -          $    -            $ 1,115
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     $ 1,115           $  -          $    -            $ 1,115
================================================================================


   On  December  31,  2001 and 2000,  these  investments  were  included  in the
following captions in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in millions):


                                                   Available-         Held-to-
                                                     for-Sale         Maturity
December 31,                                       Securities       Securities
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2001
- ----
Cash and cash equivalents                              $    -          $   976
Current marketable securities                              66                2
Cost method investments,
  principally bottling companies                          127                -
Other assets                                               16                8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       $  209          $   986
================================================================================

2000
- ----
Cash and cash equivalents                              $    -          $ 1,113
Current marketable securities                              71                2
Cost method investments,
  principally bottling companies                          151                -
Other assets                                               31                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       $  253          $ 1,115
================================================================================


   The contractual maturities of these investments as of December 31, 2001, were
as follows (in millions):

                      Available-for-Sale                 Held-to-Maturity
                          Securities                         Securities
                      ------------------               ----------------------
                                    Fair               Amortized       Fair
                       Cost        Value                    Cost      Value
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2002                  $  16        $  16                   $ 978      $ 978
2003-2006                 3            3                       8          8
Collateralized
 mortgage
 obligations             13           12                       -          -
Equity securities       251          178                       -          -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      $ 283        $ 209                   $ 986      $ 986
=============================================================================

</TABLE>


   For the years ended  December  31, 2001 and 2000,  gross  realized  gains and
losses on sales of available-for-sale  securities were not material. The cost of
securities sold is based on the specific identification method.

                                    Page 69


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

NOTE 9:HEDGING TRANSACTIONS AND
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Our  Company  uses  derivative  financial  instruments  primarily  to reduce our
exposure to adverse  fluctuations  in interest rates and foreign  exchange rates
and, to a lesser  extent,  in  commodity  prices and other  market  risks.  When
entered  into,  the Company  formally  designates  and  documents  the financial
instrument  as a hedge of a specific  underlying  exposure,  as well as the risk
management objectives and strategies for undertaking the hedge transactions. The
Company  formally  assesses,  both  at  the  inception  and at  least  quarterly
thereafter,   whether  the  financial  instruments  that  are  used  in  hedging
transactions  are  effective at  offsetting  changes in either the fair value or
cash flows of the  related  underlying  exposure.  Because of the high degree of
effectiveness  between the hedging instrument and the underlying  exposure being
hedged,  fluctuations  in the value of the derivative  instruments are generally
offset by changes in the fair  value or cash flows of the  underlying  exposures
being hedged. Any ineffective portion of a financial instrument's change in fair
value is immediately  recognized in earnings.  Virtually all of our  derivatives
are  straightforward  over-the-counter  instruments  with  liquid  markets.  Our
Company  does not  enter  into  derivative  financial  instruments  for  trading
purposes.

   The fair values of  derivatives  used to hedge or modify our risks  fluctuate
over time.  These  fair value  amounts  should not be viewed in  isolation,  but
rather in  relation to the fair  values or cash flows of the  underlying  hedged
transactions  or  other  exposures.  The  notional  amounts  of  the  derivative
financial  instruments do not  necessarily  represent  amounts  exchanged by the
parties and, therefore, are not a direct measure of our exposure from our use of
derivatives.  The amounts  exchanged are calculated by reference to the notional
amounts and by other terms of the derivatives,  such as interest rates, exchange
rates or other financial indices.

   As discussed in Note 1, the Company  adopted SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS
No.  137 and SFAS No.  138 on January 1,  2001.  These  statements  require  the
Company to recognize all derivative  instruments as either assets or liabilities
in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets at fair value. The accounting for changes in
the  fair  value of a  derivative  instrument  depends  on  whether  it has been
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging  relationship and further,  on the
type of hedging  relationship.  At the inception of the hedge relationship,  the
Company must designate the derivative instrument as either a fair value hedge, a
cash flow  hedge or a hedge of a net  investment  in a foreign  operation.  This
designation is based upon the exposure being hedged.

   The  adoption of SFAS No. 133  resulted in the Company  recording  transition
adjustments  to  recognize  its  derivative  instruments  at fair  value  and to
recognize  the  ineffective   portion  of  the  change  in  fair  value  of  its
derivatives.  The  cumulative  effect  of these  transition  adjustments  was an
after-tax  reduction to net income of approximately $10 million and an after-tax
net increase to AOCI of approximately  $50 million.  The reduction to net income
is  primarily  related to the change in the time value and fair value of foreign
currency  options and interest rate  agreements,  respectively.  The increase in
AOCI is primarily related to net gains on foreign currency cash flow hedges. The
Company  reclassified  into  earnings  during the year ended  December  31, 2001
approximately  $54 million of net gains  relating to the  transition  adjustment
recorded in AOCI as of January 1, 2001.

   We have  established  strict  counterparty  credit  guidelines and enter into
transactions only with financial  institutions of investment grade or better. We
monitor  counterparty  exposures daily and review any downgrade in credit rating
immediately.  If a  downgrade  in the credit  rating of a  counterparty  were to
occur, we have provisions  requiring  collateral in the form of U.S.  government
securities for substantially all of our transactions.  To mitigate presettlement
risk,  minimum  credit  standards  become more  stringent as the duration of the
derivative  financial  instrument  increases.  To minimize the  concentration of
credit risk, we enter into derivative transactions with a portfolio of financial
institutions.  The  Company  has  master  netting  agreements  with  most of the
financial  institutions that are  counterparties to the derivative  instruments.
These agreements allow the net settlement of assets and liabilities arising from
different  transactions with the same counterparty.  Based on these factors,  we
consider the risk of counterparty default to be minimal.

Interest Rate Management
Our  Company  maintains  a  percentage  of fixed and  variable  rate debt within
defined  parameters.  We enter into interest rate swap  agreements that maintain
the  fixed-to-variable   mix  within  these  parameters.   These  contracts  had
maturities ranging from one to two years

                                    Paqe 70


<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

on  December  31,  2001.  Interest  rate swap  agreements,  which  meet  certain
conditions  required under SFAS No. 133 for fair value hedges, are accounted for
as such.  Therefore,  no ineffective portion was recorded in 2001.  Accordingly,
the  changes in the fair value of these  agreements  are  recorded  in  earnings
immediately.  The fair value of our Company's  interest rate swap agreements was
approximately  $5 million at December 31, 2001.  The Company  estimates the fair
value of its interest rate management derivatives based on quoted market prices.

   Prior to January 1, 2001,  our Company also used interest  swaps and interest
rate caps for hedging purposes. For interest rate swaps, any differences paid or
received were  recognized as  adjustments  to interest  expense over the life of
each swap,  thereby  adjusting  the effective  interest  rate on the  underlying
obligation. Additionally, prior to January 1, 2001, our Company had entered into
an interest  rate cap  agreement  that  entitled us to receive  from a financial
institution the amount,  if any, by which our interest  payments on our variable
rate debt exceeded  prespecified interest rates through 2004. This cap agreement
was  terminated  during 2001, and the impact on the  Consolidated  Statements of
Income was immaterial.

Foreign Currency Management
The purpose of our foreign  currency  hedging  activities  is to reduce the risk
that our eventual U.S. dollar net cash inflows  resulting from sales outside the
U.S. will be adversely affected by changes in exchange rates.

   We enter into  forward  exchange  contracts  and  purchase  currency  options
(principally euro and Japanese yen) to hedge certain portions of forecasted cash
flows denominated in foreign currencies. The effective portion of the changes in
fair value for these contracts,  which have been designated as cash flow hedges,
are  reported  in AOCI and  reclassified  into  earnings  in the same  financial
statement  line item and in the same period or periods  during  which the hedged
transaction affects earnings. Any ineffective portion (which was not significant
in 2001)  of the  change  in fair  value of  these  instruments  is  immediately
recognized in earnings.  These contracts had maturities  ranging from one to two
years on December  31,  2001,  the period in which all amounts  included in AOCI
will be reclassified into earnings.

   Additionally,  the Company enters into forward exchange contracts,  which are
not designated as hedging  instruments under SFAS No. 133. These instruments are
used to offset the earnings impact relating to the variability in exchange rates
on  certain  monetary  assets  and  liabilities  denominated  in  non-functional
currencies.  Changes in the fair value of these  instruments  are  recognized in
earnings in the "Other  income-net" line item of the Consolidated  Statements of
Income  immediately to offset the effect of remeasurement of the monetary assets
and liabilities.

   The Company  also enters into  forward  exchange  contracts  to hedge its net
investment position in certain major currencies.  Under SFAS No. 133, changes in
the  fair  value  of  these  instruments  are  recognized  in  foreign  currency
translation adjustment, a component of AOCI, immediately to offset the change in
the value of the net  investment  being hedged.  For the year ended December 31,
2001,  approximately  $43  million of losses  relating to  derivative  financial
instruments were recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment.

   Prior  to  January  1,  2001,  gains  and  losses  on  derivative   financial
instruments  that were  designated and effective as hedges of net investments in
international   operations  were  included  in  foreign   currency   translation
adjustments, a component of AOCI.

   For the year ended  December  31,  2001,  we  recorded an increase to AOCI of
approximately  $92 million,  net of both income taxes and  reclassifications  to
earnings,  primarily  related to net gains on foreign currency cash flow hedges,
which  will  generally  offset  cash  flow  losses  relating  to the  underlying
exposures  being hedged in future  periods.  The Company  estimates that it will
reclassify into earnings during the next 12 months approximately $120 million of
the net amount  recorded  in AOCI as of  December  31,  2001 as the  anticipated
foreign  currency  cash flows  occur.  The Company  recorded  approximately  $12
million in earnings classified within net operating revenues in the Consolidated
Statements  of  Income,  primarily  related  to the  change in the time value of
foreign currency options. During 2001, the FASB issued an interpretation to SFAS
No. 133 allowing the entire change in fair value,  including the time value,  of
certain  purchased  options to be recorded in AOCI until the related  underlying
exposure is recorded  in  earnings.  The  Company  adopted  this  interpretation
prospectively.

   The Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedge relationships  during the
year ended December 31, 2001.

                                    Page 71

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The  following  table  summarizes  activity  in AOCI  related to  derivatives
designated  as cash flow  hedges  held by the  Company  during the  period  from
January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   Before-Tax        Income          After-Tax
Year Ended December 31,                Amount           Tax             Amount
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>                 <C>
2001
- ----
Cumulative effect
  of adopting
  SFAS No. 133, net                    $   83        $  (33)             $  50
Net changes in fair value
  of derivatives                          311          (122)               189
Net gains reclassified from
  AOCI into earnings                     (160)           63                (97)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated derivative
  net gains as of
  December 31, 2001                    $  234        $  (92)             $ 142
================================================================================

</TABLE>

   The following table presents the fair value, carrying value and maturities of
the Company's foreign currency derivative instruments outstanding as of December
31, 2001 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                Carrying                 Fair
December 31,                      Values               Values         Maturity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                  <C>          <C>
2001
- ----
Forward contracts                  $  37                $  37             2002
Currency swap agreements              10                   10             2002
Purchased options                    219                  219        2002-2003
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $ 266                $ 266
================================================================================

</TABLE>

   The  Company  estimates  the fair value of its foreign  currency  derivatives
based on quoted market prices or pricing models using current market rates. This
amount is primarily  reflected in prepaid  expenses and other assets  within the
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.

   Prior to January 1, 2001,  our Company also used foreign  exchange  contracts
and purchased currency options for hedging purposes.  Premiums paid and realized
gains and losses, including those on any terminated contracts,  were included in
prepaid expenses and other assets.  These were recognized in income,  along with
unrealized gains and losses,  in the same period the hedging  transactions  were
realized.  Approximately  $26  million of  realized  gains on settled  contracts
entered  into as  hedges  of  firmly  committed  transactions  that  had not yet
occurred  were  deferred on December  31, 2000.  Deferred  gains and losses from
hedging anticipated transactions were not material on December 31, 2000.

   The  following  table  presents the  aggregate  notional  principal  amounts,
carrying  values,  fair  values  and  maturities  of  our  derivative  financial
instruments outstanding on December 31, 2000 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                       Notional
                      Principal       Carrying           Fair
December 31,            Amounts         Values         Values         Maturity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                     <C>             <C>             <C>          <C>
2000
Interest rate
  management
  Swap agreements
    Assets              $   150          $   1          $   8             2003
    Liabilities              25             (1)           (10)       2001-2003
  Interest rate caps
    Assets                1,600              8              4             2004

Foreign currency
  management

  Forward contracts
    Assets                1,812             49             74             2001
  Swap agreements
    Assets                   48              2             (3)            2001
    Liabilities             359             (2)           (19)       2001-2002

  Purchased options
    Assets                  706             18             53        2001-2002

Other
    Assets                   87              2              3             2001
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        $ 4,787          $  77          $ 110
================================================================================

</TABLE>


NOTE 10: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

On December 31, 2001, we were contingently liable for guarantees of indebtedness
owed by third  parties  in the  amount of $436  million,  of which  $10  million
related  to the  Company's  equity  investee  bottlers.  We do not  consider  it
probable that we will be required to satisfy these guarantees.

   We believe our exposure to concentrations  of credit risk is limited,  due to
the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations.

   We have committed to make future marketing expenditures of $1,326 million, of
which the majority is payable over the next 12 years.

   The Company is involved in various  legal  proceedings.  Management  believes
that  any  liability  to the  Company  which  may  arise  as a  result  of these
proceedings will not have a material  adverse effect on the financial  condition
of the Company taken as a whole.

                                    Page 72
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

NOTE 11: NET CHANGE IN OPERATING ASSETS
AND LIABILITIES

The changes in operating assets and liabilities,  net of effects of acquisitions
and  divestitures  of businesses and unrealized  exchange  gains/losses,  are as
follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            2001          2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>             <C>
Increase in trade
  accounts receivable                     $  (73)       $  (39)         $  (96)
Increase in inventories                      (17)           (2)           (163)
Increase in prepaid
  expenses and
  other assets                              (349)         (618)           (547)
Increase (decrease) in
  accounts payable
  and accrued expenses                      (179)          (84)            281
Increase (decrease) in
  accrued taxes                              247           (96)            (36)
Increase (decrease) in
  other liabilities                          (91)          (13)              4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          $ (462)       $ (852)         $ (557)
================================================================================

</TABLE>


NOTE 12:  RESTRICTED STOCK, STOCK OPTIONS
AND OTHER STOCK PLANS

Our Company  currently  sponsors  restricted  stock award plans and stock option
plans.  Our  Company  applies  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25 and
related   Interpretations   in  accounting  for  our  plans.   Accordingly,   no
compensation   cost  has  been  recognized  for  our  stock  option  plans.  The
compensation  cost charged  against income for our restricted  stock award plans
was $41 million in 2001,  $6 million in 2000 and $39  million in 1999.  In 2000,
the Company recorded a charge of $37 million for special termination benefits as
part of the Realignment  (discussed in Note 16). Had  compensation  cost for the
stock  option plans been  determined  based on the fair value at the grant dates
for awards under the plans,  our  Company's  net income and net income per share
(basic and diluted) would have been as presented in the following table.

   The pro forma  amounts are  indicated  below (in  millions,  except per share
amounts):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                     2001          2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>           <C>             <C>
Net income
  As reported                            $ 3,969       $ 2,177         $ 2,431
  Pro forma                              $ 3,767       $ 1,995         $ 2,271
Basic net income
 per share
  As reported                            $  1.60       $   .88         $   .98
  Pro forma                              $  1.51       $   .81         $   .92
Diluted net income
 per share
  As reported                            $  1.60       $   .88         $   .98
  Pro forma                              $  1.51       $   .80         $   .91
================================================================================
</TABLE>


   Under the amended  1989  Restricted  Stock  Award Plan and the  amended  1983
Restricted Stock Award Plan (the Restricted  Stock Award Plans),  40 million and
24 million shares of restricted  common stock,  respectively,  may be granted to
certain officers and key employees of our Company.

   On December 31, 2001,  29 million  shares were  available for grant under the
Restricted  Stock Award Plans. In 2001,  there were 116,300 shares of restricted
stock granted at an average price of $48.95.  In 2000, there were 546,585 shares
of  restricted  stock  granted at an average  price of $58.20.  In 1999,  32,100
shares of restricted stock were granted at an average price of $53.86.  In 2001,
78,700 shares of restricted  stock were cancelled at an average price of $48.49.
In 2000, 80,500 shares of restricted stock were cancelled at an average price of
$28.41.  In 1999,  1,600 shares of restricted stock were cancelled at an average
price of $86.75.  Participants are entitled to vote and receive dividends on the
shares  and,  under the 1983  Restricted  Stock  Award  Plan,  participants  are
reimbursed  by our Company for income  taxes  imposed on the award,  but not for
taxes generated by the reimbursement  payment. The shares are subject to certain
transfer  restrictions and may be forfeited if a participant  leaves our Company
for  reasons  other than  retirement,  disability  or death,  absent a change in
control of our Company.

   In addition,  270,000  shares of three-year  performance-based  and 2,025,000
shares of five-year performance-based restricted stock were granted in 2000. The
release of these  shares  was  contingent  upon the  Company  achieving  certain
predefined performance targets over the three-year and five-year measurement


                                    Page 73
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

periods, respectively.  Participants were entitled to vote and receive dividends
on these shares  during the  measurement  period.  The Company also  promised to
grant  180,000  shares of stock at the end of three years and 200,000  shares at
the end of five years to certain  employees if the Company  achieved  predefined
performance targets over the respective  measurement periods. In May 2001, these
performance  based  restricted stock awards and promises made to grant shares in
the future were cancelled.  New awards, for the same number of shares,  with the
exception of the promise made in 2000 to grant 200,000 shares at the end of five
years,  were granted.  The  performance  targets of these new awards are aligned
with the Company's current  long-term  earnings per share growth target of 11 to
12 percent.  In 2001,  an additional  10,000  shares of  three-year  and 300,000
shares  of  five-year  performance-based  restricted  stock  were  granted  with
performance  targets aligned with the Company's current  long-term  earnings per
share growth target of 11 to 12 percent.

   Under our 1991 Stock  Option  Plan (the 1991 Option  Plan),  a maximum of 120
million  shares of our common stock was approved to be issued or  transferred to
certain officers and employees  pursuant to stock options and stock appreciation
rights granted under the 1991 Option Plan. The stock appreciation  rights permit
the holder,  upon  surrendering  all or part of the  related  stock  option,  to
receive  cash,  common stock or a  combination  thereof,  in an amount up to 100
percent of the difference between the market price and the option price. Options
to purchase common stock under the 1991 Option Plan have been granted to Company
employees at fair market value at the date of grant.

   The 1999 Stock  Option  Plan (the 1999  Option  Plan) was  approved  by share
owners in April of 1999.  Following  the  approval of the 1999 Option  Plan,  no
grants were made from the 1991 Option Plan, and shares  available under the 1991
Option Plan were no longer available to be granted.  Under the 1999 Option Plan,
a maximum of 120 million shares of our common stock was approved to be issued or
transferred to certain officers and employees  pursuant to stock options granted
under the 1999  Option  Plan.  Options to purchase  common  stock under the 1999
Option Plan have been  granted to Company  employees at fair market value at the
date of grant.

   Generally,  stock options become  exercisable over a four-year vesting period
and  expire  15 years  from  the date of  grant.  Prior to 1999,  stock  options
generally  became  exercisable  over a three-year  vesting period and expired 10
years from the date of grant.

   The fair value of each option  grant is  estimated on the date of grant using
the  Black-Scholes  option-pricing  model  with the  following  weighted-average
assumptions  used for  grants  in 2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively:  dividend
yields of 1.6, 1.2 and 1.2 percent;  expected  volatility of 31.9, 31.7 and 27.1
percent;  risk-free  interest  rates of 5.1, 5.8 and 6.2  percent;  and expected
lives  of  five  years  for  2001  and  2000  and  four  years  for  1999.   The
weighted-average fair value of options granted was $15.09, $19.85 and $15.77 for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

   A summary of stock option  activity under all plans is as follows  (shares in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



                                                   2001                            2000                           1999
                                        -------------------------      --------------------------      ----------------------------
                                                 Weighted-Average                Weighted-Average                Weighted-Average
                                        Shares     Exercise Price      Shares      Exercise Price      Shares      Exercise Price
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>               <C>

Outstanding on January 1,                  112            $ 51.23         101             $ 46.66          80             $ 42.77
Granted (1)                                 45              48.11          32               57.35          28               53.53
Exercised                                   (7)             24.30         (12)              26.00          (6)              26.12
Forfeited/Expired (2)                       (9)             56.74          (9)              57.51          (1)              60.40
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding on December 31,                141            $ 51.16         112             $ 51.23         101             $ 46.66
===================================================================================================================================
Exercisable on December 31,                 65            $ 50.83          60             $ 46.57          59             $ 39.40
===================================================================================================================================
Shares available on December 31,
 for options that may be granted            25                             65                              92
===================================================================================================================================


<FN>
(1) No grants were made from the 1991 Option Plan during 2000 or 2001.
(2) Shares Forfeited/Expired relate to the 1991 and 1999 Option Plans.

</FN>
</TABLE>
                                    Page 74
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The following table  summarizes  information  about stock options at
December 31, 2001 (shares in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                Outstanding Stock Options                         Exercisable Stock Options
                                ---------------------------------------------------            ------------------------------
                                            Weighted-Average
                                                   Remaining       Weighted-Average                       Weighted-Average
Range of Exercise Prices        Shares      Contractual Life         Exercise Price               Shares    Exercise Price
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>                      <C>                     <C>            <C>
$20.00 to $30.00                     7             2.1 years                $ 23.44                    7           $ 23.44
$30.01 to $40.00                     9             3.8 years                $ 35.63                    9           $ 35.63
$40.01 to $50.00                    53            12.9 years                $ 48.22                    9           $ 48.86
$50.01 to $60.00                    59            12.2 years                $ 56.30                   28           $ 56.54
$60.01 to $86.75                    13             6.8 years                $ 65.87                   12           $ 65.89
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$20.00 to $86.75                   141            10.9 years                $ 51.16                   65           $ 50.83
=============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


NOTE 13:  PENSION AND OTHER
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

Our Company  sponsors and/or  contributes to pension and  postretirement  health
care and life insurance benefit plans covering  substantially all U.S. employees
and certain employees in international  locations. We also sponsor nonqualified,
unfunded defined benefit pension plans for certain officers and other employees.
In addition,  our Company and its  subsidiaries  have various  pension plans and
other forms of postretirement arrangements outside the United States.

   Total expense for all benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans,
defined  contribution  pension plans,  and  postretirement  health care and life
insurance  benefit plans,  amounted to approximately  $142 million in 2001, $116
million  in 2000 and $108  million in 1999.  In  addition,  in 2000 the  Company
recorded a charge of $124 million for special retirement benefits as part of the
Realignment  discussed in Note 16. Net  periodic  cost for our pension and other
defined benefit plans consists of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Pension Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
Year Ended December 31,                2001            2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>             <C>             <C>
Service cost                          $  53           $  54           $  67
Interest cost                           123             119             111
Expected return on
 plan assets                           (125)           (132)           (119)
Amortization of prior
 service cost                             8               4               6
Recognized net actuarial
 (gain) loss                              3              (7)              7
Settlements and curtailments              -               1               -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic pension cost             $  62           $  39           $  72
================================================================================


                                                  Other Benefits
                                      ------------------------------------------
Year Ended December 31,                 2001            2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost                            $ 13            $ 12            $ 14
Interest cost                             34              29              22
Expected return on
 plan assets                              (1)             (1)             (1)
Amortization of prior
 service cost                              2               1               -
Recognized net
 actuarial gain                            -              (1)              -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic cost                       $ 48            $ 40            $ 35
================================================================================
</TABLE>

   The  following  table sets forth the  change in  benefit  obligation  for our
benefit plans (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                     -----------------------------   ----------------------------
December 31,                            2001                2000        2001               2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>                 <C>           <C>                <C>
Benefit obligation
 at beginning
 of year                             $ 1,819             $ 1,670       $ 407              $ 303
Service cost                              53                  54          13                 12
Interest cost                            123                 119          34                 29
Foreign currency
 exchange rate
 changes                                 (23)                (55)          -                  -
Amendments                                 -                  57           3                 21
Actuarial loss                            62                  77          96                 25
Benefits paid                           (126)               (146)        (23)               (17)
Business
 combinations                             10                   -           -                  -
Divestitures                             (12)                  -           -                  -
Settlements and
 curtailments                              -                 (67)          -                 13
Special retirement
 benefits                                  -                 104           -                 20
Other                                      -                   6           -                  1
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Benefit obligation at end of year    $ 1,906             $ 1,819       $ 530              $ 407
=================================================================================================

</TABLE>

                                     Page 75
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The  following  table sets forth the  change in plan  assets for our  benefit
plans (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                           Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                     -----------------------------    --------------------------
December 31,                            2001                2000        2001               2000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>                 <C>            <C>               <C>
Fair value of
 plan assets
 at beginning
 of year (1)                         $ 1,555             $ 1,722       $  17              $  29
Actual return on
 plan assets                             (96)                  4           -                  2
Employer
 contribution                            130                  31           -                  -
Foreign currency
 exchange rate
 changes                                 (14)                (57)          -                  -
Benefits paid                            (91)               (120)        (17)               (14)
Business
 combinations                              9                   -           -                  -
Divestitures                              (4)                  -           -                  -
Settlements                                -                 (38)          -                  -
Other                                      3                  13           -                  -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of
 plan assets
 at end of year (1)                  $ 1,492             $ 1,555       $   -              $  17
================================================================================================



<FN>

(1) Pension benefit plan assets  primarily  consist of listed stocks  including
1,621,050 shares of common stock of our Company with a fair value of $76 million
and $99 million as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

</FN>
</TABLE>

   The total projected benefit  obligation and fair value of plan assets for the
pension plans with projected  benefit  obligations in excess of plan assets were
$687 million and $232  million,  respectively,  as of December 31, 2001 and $617
million and $194  million,  respectively,  as of December  31,  2000.  The total
accumulated  benefit  obligation  and fair value of plan  assets for the pension
plans with  accumulated  benefit  obligations in excess of plan assets were $583
million and $202 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2001 and $480 million
and $152 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2000.

   The accrued  pension and other benefit costs  recognized in our  accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets are computed as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           Pension Benefits                 Other Benefits
                                      ---------------------------     ---------------------------
December 31,                             2001              2000           2001             2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>                 <C>          <C>               <C>
Funded status                          $ (414)           $ (264)        $ (530)          $ (390)
Unrecognized net
 asset at transition                       (5)               (6)             -                -
Unrecognized prior
 service cost                              73                90             21               23
Unrecognized
 net actuarial
 (gain) loss                              195               (89)            45              (51)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net liability
 recognized                            $ (151)           $ (269)        $ (464)          $ (418)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid benefit
 cost                                  $  146            $   39         $    -           $    -
Accrued benefit
 liability                               (387)             (374)          (464)            (418)
Accumulated other
 comprehensive income                      70                43              -                -
Intangible asset                           20                23              -                -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net liability
 recognized                            $ (151)          $ (269)         $ (464)          $ (418)
=================================================================================================

</TABLE>

   The weighted-average  assumptions used in computing the preceding information
are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Pension Benefits
                                      ----------------------------------------
December 31,                            2001           2000            1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>             <C>
Discount rate                          6 1/2%             7%              7%
Rate of increase in
 compensation levels                   4 1/4%         4 1/2%          4 1/2%
Expected long-term
 rate of return on
 plan assets                           8 1/2%         8 1/2%          8 1/2%



                                                  Other Benefits
                                      ----------------------------------------
December 31,                            2001           2000            1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                          7 1/4%         7 1/2%              8%
Rate of increase in
 compensation levels                   4 1/2%         4 3/4%              5%
Expected long-term
 rate of return on
 plan assets                               -              3%              3%

</TABLE>


                                    Page 76
<PAGE>


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The rate of increase in per capita costs of covered  health care  benefits is
assumed to be 9 percent in 2002,  decreasing  gradually  to 5 1/4 percent by the
year 2007.

   A one  percentage  point  change in the  assumed  health care cost trend rate
would have the following effects (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                One Percentage                One Percentage
                                Point Increase                Point Decrease
                                ----------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>                         <C>
Effect on accumulated
 postretirement benefit
 obligation as of
 December 31, 2001                        $ 54                        $ (45)

Effect on net periodic
 postretirement benefit
 cost in 2001                             $  7                        $  (6)

</TABLE>


NOTE 14: INCOME TAXES

Income before income taxes and cumulative  effect of accounting  change consists
of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                 2001            2000            1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>             <C>
United States                        $ 2,430         $ 1,497         $ 1,504
International                          3,240           1,902           2,315
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     $ 5,670         $ 3,399         $ 3,819
==============================================================================

</TABLE>
Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended               United     State &
December 31,             States       Local     International       Total
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>         <C>            <C>         <C>
2001
 Current                  $ 552       $ 102           $   981     $ 1,635
 Deferred                    70         (15)                1          56
2000
urrent                    $  48       $  16           $ 1,155     $ 1,219
 Deferred                    (9)         46               (34)          3
1999
Current                   $ 395       $  67           $   829     $ 1,291
 Deferred                   182          11               (96)         97
===========================================================================
</TABLE>

   We made income tax payments of approximately  $1,351 million,  $1,327 million
and  $1,404  million  in 2001,  2000 and 1999,  respectively.  During  the first
quarter of 2000, the United States and Japan taxing authorities  entered into an
Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) whereby the level of royalties paid by Coca-Cola
(Japan)  Company,  Ltd. (our Subsidiary) to our Company has been established for
the years 1993 through  2001.  Pursuant to the terms of the APA, our  Subsidiary
has filed amended returns for the applicable  periods  reflecting the negotiated
royalty rate. These amended returns resulted in the payment during the first and
second  quarters of 2000 of additional  Japanese  taxes,  the effect of which on
both our financial performance and our effective tax rate was not material,  due
primarily to offsetting tax credits utilized on our U.S. income tax return.

   A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal rate and effective rates is as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Year Ended December 31,                 2001            2000            1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                    <C>              <C>             <C>
Statutory U.S. federal rate             35.0%           35.0%           35.0%
State income taxes-net of
 federal benefit                         1.0              .8             1.0
Earnings in jurisdictions taxed
 at rates different from the
 statutory U.S. federal rate            (4.9)           (4.0)           (6.0)
Equity income or loss (1)                (.9)            2.9             1.6
Other operating charges (2)                -             1.9             5.3
Other-net                                (.4)            (.6)            (.6)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        29.8%           36.0%           36.3%
================================================================================

<FN>

(1) Includes charges by equity investees for 2000 and 1999. See Note 15.

(2) Includes charges related to certain  bottling,  manufacturing and intangible
assets for 2000 and 1999. See Note 15.

</FN>
</TABLE>

   Our  effective  tax  rate  reflects  the  tax  benefit  derived  from  having
significant  operations  outside the United States that are taxed at rates lower
than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent.

   In 2000, management concluded that it was more likely than not that local tax
benefits  would not be realized  with  respect to  principally  all of the items
discussed  in Note 15,  with the  exception  of  approximately  $188  million of
charges  related  to the  settlement  terms  of a  class  action  discrimination
lawsuit.  Accordingly,  valuation  allowances were recorded to offset the future
tax  benefit  of  these  nonrecurring  items  resulting  in an  increase  in our
effective  tax rate.  Excluding  the  impact of these  nonrecurring  items,  the
effective tax rate on operations for 2000 was slightly more than 30 percent.

   In 1999, the Company recorded a charge of $813 million,  primarily reflecting
the impairment of certain  bottling,  manufacturing and intangible  assets.  For
some  locations  with impaired  assets,  management  concluded  that it was more
likely  than not that no local tax benefit  would be  realized.  Accordingly,  a
valuation allowance was recorded offsetting the future tax benefits

                                    Page 77
<PAGE>


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

for such  locations.  This resulted in an increase in our effective tax rate for
1999. Excluding the impact, the Company's effective tax rate for 1999 would have
been 31 percent.

   Undistributed  earnings of the  Company's  foreign  subsidiaries  amounted to
approximately  $5.9 billion at December 31, 2001.  Those earnings are considered
to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. federal and state income
taxes have been provided  thereon.  Upon  distribution  of those earnings in the
form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to both U.S. income
taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and  withholding  taxes
payable  to the  various  foreign  countries.  Determination  of the  amount  of
unrecognized  deferred U.S. income tax liability is not  practicable  because of
the  complexities  associated  with  its  hypothetical   calculation;   however,
unrecognized  foreign tax credits  would be  available  to reduce a  substantial
portion of the U.S.  liability.

   The tax effects of temporary  differences and carryforwards that give rise to
deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the following (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

December 31,                                            2001            2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>

Deferred tax assets:
  Benefit plans                                      $   377         $   261
  Liabilities and reserves                               489             456
  Net operating loss carryforwards                       286             375
  Other operating charges                                169             321
  Other                                                  232             126
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gross deferred tax assets                            1,553           1,539
  Valuation allowance                                   (563)           (641)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     $   990         $   898
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Property, plant and equipment                      $   391         $   425
  Equity investments                                     196             228
  Intangible assets                                      248             224
  Other                                                  185             129
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     $ 1,020         $ 1,006
================================================================================
Net deferred tax asset (liability)(1)                $  ( 30)        $  (108)
================================================================================


<FN>
(1) Deferred  tax assets of $412 million and $250 million have been  included in
the  consolidated  balance sheet caption "Other assets" at December 31, 2001 and
2000, respectively.

</FN>
</TABLE>

   On December  31, 2001 and 2000,  we had  approximately  $240 million and $143
million,  respectively, of net deferred tax assets, located in countries outside
the United States.

   On  December  31,  2001,  we  had  $1,229   million  of  tax  operating  loss
carryforwards available to reduce future taxable income of certain international
subsidiaries.  Loss  carryforwards  of $440 million must be utilized  within the
next five years;  $789  million can be utilized  over an  indefinite  period.  A
valuation  allowance  has been provided for a portion of the deferred tax assets
related to these loss carryforwards.

NOTE 15: NONRECURRING ITEMS

In the first quarter of 2000, we recorded charges of approximately  $405 million
related to the  impairment of certain  bottling,  manufacturing  and  intangible
assets,  primarily  within  our Indian  bottling  operations.  These  impairment
charges were recorded to reduce the carrying value of the  identified  assets to
fair value.  Fair value was derived using cash flow  analysis.  The  assumptions
used in the cash flow analysis were  consistent  with those used in our internal
planning process.  The assumptions  included  estimates of future growth in unit
cases, estimates of gross margins, estimates of the impact of exchange rates and
estimates of tax rates and tax  incentives.  The charge was primarily the result
of our  revised  outlook for the Indian  beverage  market  including  the future
expected tax  environment.  The remaining  carrying  value of long-lived  assets
within  our  Indian  bottling   operations,   immediately  after  recording  the
impairment charge, was approximately $300 million.

   In July 2000,  we recorded a tax-free  non-cash  gain of  approximately  $118
million  related to the merger of  Coca-Cola  Beverages  and  Hellenic  Bottling
Company S.A. For specific transaction details refer to Note 2.

   In the fourth  quarter of 2000,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $188
million related to the settlement terms of, and direct costs related to, a class
action discrimination lawsuit. The monetary settlement includes cash payments to
fund  back  pay,  compensatory  damages,  a  promotional  achievement  fund  and
attorneys' fees. In addition,  the Company  introduced a wide range of training,
monitoring and mentoring programs.  Of the $188 million, $50 million was donated
to The  Coca-Cola  Foundation  to continue its broad range of community  support
programs. In 2001, our Company paid out substantially all of this settlement.

   In 2000,  the Company also recorded a  nonrecurring  charge of  approximately
$306 million,  which  represents the Company's  portion of a charge  recorded by
Coca-Cola Amatil to reduce the carrying value of its

                                    Page 78
<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

investment in the Philippines.  In addition,  Panamerican Beverages,  Inc. wrote
down selected  assets,  including the  impairment of the value of its Venezuelan
operating  unit.  The Company's  portion of this charge was  approximately  $124
million.  Also  contributing  to the equity  losses  were  nonrecurring  charges
recorded by investees in Eurasia and the Middle East. These nonrecurring charges
were  partially  offset by the impact of lower tax rates  related to current and
deferred taxes at Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetraenke AG (CCEAG).

   In the fourth  quarter of 1999,  we recorded  charges of  approximately  $813
million.  Of this  $813  million,  approximately  $543  million  related  to the
impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets,  primarily
within our Russian and Caribbean  bottlers and in the Middle and Far East and in
North  America.  These  impairment  charges were recorded to reduce the carrying
value of the identified  assets to fair value.  Fair values were derived using a
variety of  methodologies,  including  cash flow  analysis,  estimates  of sales
proceeds  and  independent  appraisals.  Where cash flow  analyses  were used to
estimate fair values,  key assumptions  employed,  consistent with those used in
our internal planning  process,  included our estimates of future growth in unit
case sales,  estimates of gross margins and estimates of the impact of inflation
and foreign currency fluctuations.  The charges were primarily the result of our
revised  outlook  in  certain  markets  due to  the  prolonged  severe  economic
downturns.  The remaining  carrying value of these impaired  long-lived  assets,
immediately  after  recording the  impairment  charge,  was  approximately  $140
million.

   Of the $813 million, approximately $196 million related to charges associated
with the  impairment  of the  distribution  and  bottling  assets of our vending
operations  in Japan and our bottling  operations  in the  Baltics.  The charges
reduced the carrying  value of these assets to their fair value less the cost to
sell.  Consistent with our long-term bottling strategy,  management  intended to
sell the assets of our vending  operations in Japan and our bottling  operations
in the Baltics.  The remaining  carrying value of long-lived assets within these
operations  and the income from  operations on an after-tax  basis as of and for
the 12-month period ending December 31, 2000,  were  approximately  $143 million
and $12  million,  respectively.  On December  22,  2000,  the Company  signed a
definitive  agreement to sell the assets of our vending  operations in Japan and
this sale was  completed in 2001.  The proceeds from the sale of the assets were
approximately equal to the carrying value of the long-lived assets less the cost
to sell.

   In December  2000,  the Company  announced  that it had  intended to sell its
bottling  operations in the Baltics to one of our strategic  business  partners.
However, the partner was in the process of internal  restructuring and no longer
planned to  purchase  the  Baltics  bottling  operations.  At that time  another
suitable  buyer was not  identified  so the  Company  continued  to operate  the
Baltics  bottlers as consolidated  operations  until a new buyer was identified.
Subsequently,  in January  2002,  our Company  reached an  agreement to sell our
bottling operations in the Baltics to CCHBC in early 2002. The expected proceeds
from the sale of the Baltics  bottlers  are  approximately  equal to the current
carrying value of the investment.

   The  remainder  of the  $813  million  charges,  approximately  $74  million,
primarily  related to the change in senior  management  and  charges  related to
organizational changes within the Europe, Eurasia and Middle East, Latin America
and Corporate segments. These charges were incurred during the fourth quarter of
1999.

NOTE 16:  REALIGNMENT COSTS

In January 2000, our Company initiated a major  organizational  realignment (the
Realignment)  intended to put more responsibility,  accountability and resources
in the hands of local  business units of the Company so as to fully leverage the
local capabilities of our system.

   Under the  Realignment,  employees  were separated from almost all functional
areas of the Company's  operations,  and certain  activities  were outsourced to
third parties.  The total number of employees separated as of December 31, 2000,
was approximately 5,200. Employees separated from the Company as a result of the
Realignment were offered severance or early retirement packages, as appropriate,
which  included both  financial and  nonfinancial  components.  The  Realignment
expenses  included costs  associated with  involuntary  terminations,  voluntary
retirements and other direct costs associated with implementing the Realignment.
Other direct  costs  included  repatriating  and  relocating  employees to local
markets; asset write-downs;  lease cancellation costs; and costs associated with
the development, communication and administration of the Realignment.

                                    Page 79
<PAGE>


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   The table below  summarizes the balance of accrued  Realignment  expenses and
the movement in that accrual as of and for the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                  2000          Accrued                       2001        Accrued
                                                              Non-cash          Balance                   Non-cash        Balance
                                        2000         2000          and     December 31,          2001          and   December 31,
REALIGNMENT SUMMARY                 Expenses     Payments     Exchange             2000      Payments     Exchange           2001
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>          <C>          <C>               <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
Employees involuntarily separated
 Severance pay and benefits            $ 216       $ (123)       $  (2)           $  91        $  (66)       $  (8)        $  17
 Outside services-legal,
  outplacement, consulting                33          (25)           -                8            (8)           -             -
 Other-including asset
  write-downs                             81          (37)          (7)              37           (33)          (4)            -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       $ 330       $ (185)       $  (9)           $ 136        $ (107)       $ (12)        $  17
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Employees voluntarily separated
 Special retirement pay
  and benefits                         $ 353       $ (174)       $   -            $ 179        $  (26)       $ (12)        $ 141
 Outside services-legal,
  outplacement, consulting                 6           (3)           -                3            (3)           -             -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       $ 359       $ (177)       $   -            $ 182        $  (29)       $ (12)        $ 141
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other direct costs                     $ 161       $  (92)       $  (9)           $  60        $  (26)       $ (11)        $  23
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL REALIGNMENT                      $ 850       $ (454)       $ (18)           $ 378(1)     $ (162)       $ (35)        $ 181 (1)
====================================================================================================================================


<FN>

(1) As of  December  31,  2001  and  2000,  $59  million  and  $254  million,
respectively,  were included in the consolidated balance sheet caption "Accounts
payable and accrued  expenses."  As of December 31, 2001 and 2000,  $122 million
and $124 million, respectively,  were included in the consolidated balance sheet
caption "Other liabilities."
</FN>
</TABLE>

NOTE 17: ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS

During  2001,  our  Company's   acquisition  and  investment   activity  totaled
approximately  $651 million.  In February 2001, our Company reached an agreement
with Carlsberg for the dissolution of CCNB, a joint venture bottler in which our
Company had a 49 percent ownership.  At that time, CCNB had bottling  operations
in Sweden,  Norway,  Denmark,  Finland and Iceland.  Under this  agreement  with
Carlsberg,  our Company acquired CCNB's Sweden and Norway bottling operations in
June 2001,  increasing our Company's ownership in those bottlers to 100 percent.
Carlsberg  acquired CCNB's Denmark and Finland bottling  operations,  increasing
Carlsberg's  ownership  in  those  bottlers  to  100  percent.  Pursuant  to the
agreement,  CCNB sold its Iceland bottling  operations to a third-party group of
investors in May 2001.

   In March 2001,  our Company  signed a  definitive  agreement  with La Tondena
Distillers,  Inc. (La Tondena) and San Miguel to acquire  carbonated soft drink,
water and juice brands for $84 million. CCBPI acquired the related manufacturing
and distribution assets from La Tondena for $63 million.

   In July 2001,  our  Company  and San  Miguel  acquired  CCBPI from  Coca-Cola
Amatil. Upon the completion of this transaction, our Company owned 35 percent of
the common  shares and 100  percent of the  Preferred  B shares,  and San Miguel
owned 65  percent of the common  shares of CCBPI.  Additionally,  as a result of
this  transaction,  our Company's  interest in Coca-Cola Amatil was reduced from
approximately 38 percent to approximately 35 percent.

   In  December  2001,  our  Company  completed  a cash  tender  offer  for  all
outstanding shares of common stock of Odwalla,  Inc. This acquisition was valued
at approximately  $190 million with our Company receiving an ownership  interest
of 100 percent.

   During  the  first  half of  2001,  in  separate  transactions,  our  Company
purchased two bottlers in Brazil: Refrescos Guararapes Ltda. and Sucovalle Sucos
e Concentrados  do Vale S.A. In separate  transactions  during the first half of
2000, our Company  purchased two other bottlers in Brazil:  Companhia Mineira de
Refrescos,  S.A.  and  Refrigerantes  Minas Gerais Ltda.  In October  2000,  the
Company purchased a 58 percent interest in Paraguay Refrescos S.A.  (Paresa),  a
bottler  located in Paraguay.  In December 2000, the Company made a tender offer
for the remaining 42 percent of the shares in Paresa. In January 2001, following
the completion of the tender offer, we owned approximately 95 percent of Paresa.

   The  acquisitions  and  investments  have been  accounted  for by either  the
purchase, equity or cost

                                    Page 80

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


method of accounting,  as  appropriate.  Their results have been included in the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements from their  respective  dates of acquisition
using the appropriate method of accounting.  Had the results of these businesses
been included in operations commencing with 1999, the reported results would not
have been materially affected.

NOTE 18:  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In 2001, our Company concluded negotiations regarding the terms of a Control and
Profit and Loss (CPL)  agreement  with certain other share owners of CCEAG,  the
largest  bottler in Germany,  in which the Company has an approximate 41 percent
ownership interest.  Under the terms of the CPL agreement,  the Company obtained
management  control of CCEAG for a period of up to five years. In return for the
management  control of CCEAG, the Company  guaranteed annual payments in lieu of
dividends  by CCEAG to all other CCEAG  share  owners.  Additionally,  all other
CCEAG share owners entered into either a put or a put/call option agreement with
the Company,  exercisable  at the end of the term of the CPL agreement at agreed
prices.  In early 2002, the Company assumed control of CCEAG.  This  transaction
will be accounted for as a business combination.  The present value of the total
amount  likely  to be paid by our  Company  to all  other  CCEAG  share  owners,
including the put or put/call payments and the guaranteed annual payment in lieu
of dividends,  is  approximately  $600 million.  In 2001,  CCEAG's revenues were
approximately  $1.7  billion.  Additionally,  our  Company's  debt will increase
between  $700  million  and $800  million  once  this  business  combination  is
completed.

   In November  2001,  our Company and CCBPI  entered  into a sale and  purchase
agreement with RFM Corp. to acquire its 83.2 percent interest in Cosmos Bottling
Corporation (CBC), a publicly traded Philippine beverage company. As of the date
of the agreement,  the Company began  supplying  concentrate for this operation.
The transaction valued CBC at 14 billion Philippine pesos, or approximately $270
million.  The purchase of RFM's  interest was  finalized on January 3, 2002 with
our Company receiving direct and indirect ownership totaling  approximately 62.3
percent.  A subsequent  tender offer was made to the  remaining  minority  share
owners and is expected to close in March 2002.

NOTE 19:   OPERATING SEGMENTS

Our Company's  operating structure includes the following operating segments:
North America (including The Minute Maid Company);  Africa;  Europe, Eurasia and
Middle East; Latin America; Asia; and Corporate. North America also includes the
United States, Canada and Puerto Rico.

   Effective   January  1,  2001,   our   Company's   operating   segments  were
geographically  reconfigured and renamed. Puerto Rico was added to North America
from Latin  America.  The Middle East  Division was added to Europe and Eurasia,
which  changed its name to Europe,  Eurasia and Middle  East.  At the same time,
Africa and Middle East,  less the relocated  Middle East  Division,  changed its
name to Africa. During the first quarter of 2001, Asia Pacific was renamed Asia.
Prior period  amounts have been  reclassified  to conform to the current  period
presentation.

Segment Products and Services
The  business  of  our  Company  is  nonalcoholic  ready-to-drink  beverages,
principally  carbonated  soft  drinks,  but  also  a  variety  of  noncarbonated
beverages.  Our operating segments derive  substantially all their revenues from
the manufacture and sale of beverage  concentrates and syrups with the exception
of  Corporate,  which derives its revenues  primarily  from the licensing of our
brands in connection with merchandise.

Method of Determining Segment Profit or Loss
Management  evaluates the performance of its operating segments separately to
individually  monitor the different  factors  affecting  financial  performance.
Segment  profit  or loss  includes  substantially  all the  segment's  costs  of
production, distribution and administration. Our Company manages income taxes on
a global basis.  Thus, we evaluate segment  performance  based on profit or loss
before  income  taxes.  Our  Company  typically  manages  and  evaluates  equity
investments  and related income on a segment level.  However,  we manage certain
significant investments,  such as our equity interests in Coca-Cola Enterprises,
at the Corporate segment.  We manage financial costs, such as exchange gains and
losses and  interest  income and  expense,  on a global  basis at the  Corporate
segment.

                                    Page 81

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

   Information about our Company's operations by operating segment is as follows
(in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Europe,
                                     North                        Eurasia &       Latin
                                   America         Africa       Middle East     America       Asia        Corporate    Consolidated
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>             <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>            <C>
2001
- ----
Net operating revenues             $ 7,526          $ 621           $ 4,492     $ 2,273    $ 5,000 (1)      $   180        $ 20,092
Operating income                     1,480            261             1,476       1,094      1,763             (722)          5,352
Interest income                                                                                                 325             325
Interest expense                                                                                                289             289
Equity income (loss)                     2              2               (63)        118         68               25             152
Identifiable operating assets        4,738            293             2,516       1,681      2,121            5,646 (2)      16,995
Investments (3)                        140             78             1,732       1,572      1,053              847           5,422
Capital expenditures                   339             11               105          37        107              170             769
Depreciation and amortization          249             27               134          90        144              159             803
Income before income taxes
 and cumulative effect of
 accounting change                   1,472            258             1,417       1,279      1,808             (564)(4)       5,670
====================================================================================================================================
2000
- ----
Net operating revenues             $ 7,372          $ 608           $ 4,493     $ 2,140    $ 5,127 (1)      $   149        $ 19,889
Operating income (5)                 1,409            174             1,300 (6)     908        956           (1,056)(7)       3,691
Interest income                                                                                                 345             345
Interest expense                                                                                                447             447
Equity income (loss) (8)                 3              1               (39)        (75)      (290)             111            (289)
Identifiable operating assets        4,271            333             1,697       1,545      1,953            5,270 (2)      15,069
Investments (3)                        141             85             2,010       1,767        993              769           5,765
Capital expenditures                   259              8               197          16        132              121             733
Depreciation and amortization          244             32                86          96        211              104             773
Income before income taxes           1,413            161             1,379 (9)     859        651           (1,064)          3,399
====================================================================================================================================
1999
- ----
Net operating revenues             $ 7,086          $ 662           $ 4,670     $ 1,932    $ 4,769 (1)      $   165        $ 19,284
Operating income (10)                1,447            212               912         829      1,194             (612)          3,982
Interest income                                                                                                 260             260
Interest expense                                                                                                337             337
Equity income (loss)                    (5)             1              (103)         (5)       (37)             (35)           (184)
Identifiable operating assets        3,591            361             1,935       1,653      2,439            4,852 (2)      14,831
Investments (3)                        139             75             2,128       1,833      1,837              780           6,792
Capital expenditures                   269             18               222          67        317              176           1,069
Depreciation and amortization          263             27               100          96        184              122             792
Income before income taxes           1,443            199               797         836      1,143             (599)          3,819
====================================================================================================================================

Intercompany transfers between operating segments are not material.
Certain prior year amounts have been  reclassified  to conform to the current
year presentation.

<FN>
(1) Japan revenues  represent  approximately  74 percent of total Asia operating
segment  revenues  related to 2001,  75  percent  related to 2000 and 79 percent
related to 1999.

(2)  Principally   marketable   securities,   finance  subsidiary   receivables,
trademarks and other intangible assets and fixed assets.

(3) Principally equity investments in bottling companies.

(4) Income before income taxes and  cumulative  effect of accounting  change was
increased  by $91  million  for  Corporate  due to a  non-cash  gain  which  was
recognized on the issuance of stock by Coca-Cola Enterprises,  one of our equity
investees.

(5) Operating  income was reduced by $3 million for North America,  $397 million
for Asia and $5 million for  Corporate  related to the other  operating  charges
recorded for asset  impairments in the first quarter of 2000.  Operating  income
was also reduced by $132 million for North America, $33 million for Africa, $205
million for Europe,  Eurasia & Middle East, $59 million for Latin America,  $127
million for Asia and $294 million for  Corporate as a result of other  operating
charges associated with the Realignment.

(6)  Operating  income was reduced by $30  million for Europe,  Eurasia & Middle
East due to incremental marketing expenses in Central Europe.

(7) Operating  income was reduced by $188 million for  Corporate  related to the
settlement  terms of a  discrimination  lawsuit and a donation to The  Coca-Cola
Foundation.

(8) Equity income (loss) was reduced by $35 million for Europe, Eurasia & Middle
East,  $124 million for Latin  America and $306 million for Asia, as a result of
our Company's portion of nonrecurring charges recorded by equity investees.

(9) Income before income taxes was increased by $118 million for Europe, Eurasia
& Middle East as a result of a gain related to the merger of Coca-Cola Beverages
plc and Hellenic Bottling Company S.A.

(10) Operating  income was reduced by $34 million for North America,  $3 million
for Africa,  $506  million for Europe,  Eurasia & Middle  East,  $35 million for
Latin  America,  $176 million for Asia and $59 million for Corporate  related to
the other operating charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 1999.

</FN>
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Europe,
Compound Growth Rates                North                        Eurasia &       Latin
Ending 2001                        America         Africa       Middle East     America       Asia         Consolidated
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>              <C>          <C>        <C>                 <C>

Net operating revenues
  5 years                              5.5%           4.2%            (5.7)%        2.4%       5.7%                 1.9%
 10 years                              6.1%          10.9%              1.9%        7.6%       9.5%                 6.0%
====================================================================================================================================
Operating income
  5 years                              9.4%          14.1%              1.0%        4.9%       6.6%                 6.5%
 10 years                              9.2%           8.2%              4.9%       10.4%       9.4%                 8.8%
====================================================================================================================================

</TABLE>

                                    Page 82

<PAGE>

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries




                                               [pie charts]

NET OPERATING REVENUES BY OPERATING SEGMENT (1)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                              2001          2000        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>         <C>

North America                                   38%           37%         37%
Africa                                           3%            3%          4%
Europe, Eurasia and Middle East                 23%           23%         24%
Latin America                                   11%           11%         10%
Asia                                            25%           26%         25%

</TABLE>

OPERATING INCOME BY OPERATING SEGMENT (1)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              2001          2000        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>         <C>

North America                                   24%           30%         31%
Africa                                           4%            4%          5%
Europe, Eurasia & Middle East                   25%           27%         20%
Latin America                                   18%           19%         18%
Asia                                            29%           20%         26%

(1)  Charts and percentages are calculated excluding Corporate.

</TABLE>


================================================================================


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHARE OWNERS

The Coca-Cola Company

We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of The Coca-Cola
Company  and  subsidiaries  as of December  31,  2001 and 2000,  and the related
consolidated statements of income, share-owners' equity, and cash flows for each
of the three  years in the period  ended  December  31,  2001.  These  financial
statements   are  the   responsibility   of  the   Company's   management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.

   We conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates  made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position of The Coca-Cola
Company and  subsidiaries  at December 31, 2001 and 2000,  and the  consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  December 31, 2001, in conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States.

   As discussed in Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  in
2001 the Company changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments and
hedging activities.



   /S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
   Atlanta, Georgia
   January 25, 2002


                                    Page 83

<PAGE>



                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)

(In millions except per
 share data)                      First      Second       Third      Fourth        Full
Year Ended December 31,         Quarter     Quarter     Quarter     Quarter        Year
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>        <C>

2001
- ----
Net operating revenues          $ 4,479     $ 5,293     $ 5,397     $ 4,923    $ 20,092
Gross profit                      3,134       3,714       3,705       3,495      14,048
Net income                          863       1,118       1,074         914       3,969
Basic net income per share          .35         .45         .43         .37        1.60
Diluted net income per share        .35         .45         .43         .37        1.60
========================================================================================
2000
- ----
Net operating revenues          $ 4,256     $ 5,487     $ 5,413     $ 4,733    $ 19,889
Gross profit                      2,858       3,810       3,677       3,340      13,685
Net income (loss)                   (58)        926       1,067         242       2,177
Basic net income (loss)
 per share                         (.02)        .37         .43         .10         .88
Diluted net income (loss)
 per share                         (.02)        .37         .43         .10         .88
========================================================================================

</TABLE>

The third  quarter of 2001  includes a non-cash gain on the issuance of stock by
one of our equity investees, Coca-Cola Enterprises, of approximately $91 million
($.02 per share after income taxes, basic and diluted).

The first quarter of 2000 includes other operating charges of approximately $405
million ($.16 per share after income taxes, basic and diluted) primarily related
to the impairment of certain bottling,  manufacturing and intangible assets. The
first quarter of 2000 also includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$275 million ($.08 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.

The second quarter of 2000 includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$191 million ($.05 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.

The third  quarter of 2000 includes a gain of $118 million ($.05 per share after
income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to the merger of Coca-Cola  Beverages
and Hellenic  Bottling  Company  S.A.  This gain was  partially  offset by other
operating  charges of  approximately  $94 million  ($.03 per share after  income
taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to costs associated with the Realignment and
$30  million  ($.01  per share  after  income  taxes,  basic  and  diluted)  for
incremental marketing expense in Central Europe.

The fourth quarter of 2000 includes  other  operating  charges of  approximately
$290 million ($.08 per share after income taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to
costs associated with the Realignment.  The fourth quarter of 2000 also includes
other  operating  charges of  approximately  $188 million  ($.05 per share after
income  taxes,  basic and diluted)  related to the  settlement  terms of a class
action discrimination  lawsuit and a donation to The Coca-Cola  Foundation.  The
fourth quarter of 2000 also includes the Company's share of charges  recorded by
investees  of  approximately  $463 million  ($.19 per share after income  taxes,
basic and diluted).

Effective  January 1, 2001, our Company adopted the provisions of EITF Issue No.
00-14,  "Accounting  for Certain  Sales  Incentives,"  and EITF Issue No. 00-22,
"Accounting  for 'Points' and Certain  Other  Time-Based or  Volume-Based  Sales
Incentive  Offers,  and Offers for Free  Products or Services to be Delivered in
the Future." Both of these EITF Issues provide  additional  guidance relating to
the income statement classification of certain sales incentives. The adoption of
these EITF Issues resulted in the Company  reducing both net operating  revenues
and gross profit by $135 million,  $134  million,  $130 million and $170 million
for the first quarter, second quarter, third quarter and fourth quarter of 2000,
respectively.

STOCK PRICES

Below is a  summary  of the New York  Stock  Exchange  Composite  high,  low and
closing  prices of The  Coca-Cola  Company's  stock for each quarter of 2001 and
2000.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           First        Second          Third           Fourth
                         Quarter       Quarter        Quarter          Quarter
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                      <C>           <C>            <C>              <C>
2001
- ----
High                     $ 62.19       $ 49.35        $ 50.70          $ 50.45
Low                        43.76         42.37          43.50            44.01
Close                      45.16         45.00          46.85            47.15
================================================================================
2000
- ----
High                     $ 66.88       $ 60.88        $ 64.00          $ 63.38
Low                        42.88         44.75          49.19            53.50
Close                      46.94         57.44          55.13            60.94
================================================================================

</TABLE>

                                    Page 85

<PAGE>

                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     Compound
(In millions except per            Growth Rates                            Year Ended December 31,
share data, ratios and         -------------------   -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
growth rates)                  5 Years    10 Years   2001(2)(3)   2000(3)    1999(3)     1998(3)(4)     1997(3)(4)      1996(3)(4)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>        <C>      <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>             <C>             <C>
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
Net operating revenues         1.9 %     6.0 %    $   20,092    $  19,889   $  19,284     $  18,357       $  18,462       $  18,290
Cost of goods sold            (2.2)%     2.7 %         6,044        6,204       6,009         5,562           6,015           6,738
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                   4.0 %     7.8 %        14,048       13,685      13,275        12,795          12,447          11,552
Selling, administrative and
 general expenses              3.7 %     7.3 %         8,696        8,551       8,480         7,755           7,386           7,252
Other operating charges                                    -        1,443         813            73              60             385
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income               6.5 %     8.8 %         5,352        3,691       3,982         4,967           5,001           3,915
Interest income                                          325          345         260           219             211             238
Interest expense                                         289          447         337           277             258             286
Equity income (loss)                                     152         (289)       (184)           32             155             211
Other income (deductions)-net                             39           99          98           230             583              87
Gains on issuances of stock by
 equity investees                                         91            -           -            27             363             431
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before income
 taxes and changes in
 accounting principles         4.3 %     9.1 %         5,670        3,399       3,819         5,198           6,055           4,596
Income taxes                   8.9 %     8.3 %         1,691        1,222       1,388         1,665           1,926           1,104
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles      2.6 %     9.4 %     $   3,979    $   2,177   $   2,431     $   3,533       $   4,129       $   3,492
====================================================================================================================================
Net income                     2.6 %     9.4 %     $   3,969    $   2,177   $   2,431     $   3,533       $   4,129       $   3,492
Preferred stock dividends                                  -            -           -             -               -               -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to
 common share owners           2.6 %     9.4 %     $   3,969    $   2,177   $   2,431     $   3,533       $   4,129       $   3,492
====================================================================================================================================
Average common shares
 outstanding                                           2,487        2,477       2,469         2,467           2,477           2,494
Average common shares
 outstanding assuming dilution                         2,487        2,487       2,487         2,496           2,515           2,523


PER COMMON SHARE DATA
- ---------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- basic                      2.7 %    10.1 %     $    1.60    $     .88   $     .98     $    1.43       $    1.67       $    1.40
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- diluted                    3.0 %    10.3 %          1.60          .88         .98          1.42            1.64            1.38
Basic net income               2.7 %    10.1 %          1.60          .88         .98          1.43            1.67            1.40
Diluted net income             3.0 %    10.3 %          1.60          .88         .98          1.42            1.64            1.38
Cash dividends                 7.6 %    11.6 %           .72          .68         .64           .60             .56             .50
Market price on December 31,  (2.2)%     8.9 %         47.15        60.94       58.25         67.00           66.69           52.63


TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF
 COMMON STOCK (1)             (2.1)%     8.2 %     $ 117,226    $ 151,421   $ 143,969     $ 165,190       $ 164,766       $ 130,575
- ---------------------


BALANCE SHEET AND OTHER DATA
- ----------------------------
Cash, cash equivalents and
 current marketable securities                     $   1,934    $   1,892   $   1,812     $   1,807       $   1,843       $   1,658
Property, plant and equipment-net                      4,453        4,168       4,267         3,669           3,743           3,550
Depreciation                                             502          465         438           381             384             442
Capital expenditures                                     769          733       1,069           863           1,093             990
Total assets                                          22,417       20,834      21,623        19,145          16,881          16,112
Long-term debt                                         1,219          835         854           687             801           1,116
Total debt                                             5,118        5,651       6,227         5,149           3,875           4,513
Share-owners' equity                                  11,366        9,316       9,513         8,403           7,274           6,125
Total capital (1)                                     16,484       14,967      15,740        13,552          11,149          10,638


OTHER KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES (1)
- ----------------------------
Total debt-to-total capital                             31.0%        37.8%      39.6%          38.0%           34.8%           42.4%
Net debt-to-net capital                                 22.6%        29.4%      32.2%          28.1%           22.0%           31.6%
Return on common equity                                 38.5%        23.1%      27.1%          45.1%           61.6%           60.8%
Return on capital                                       26.6%        16.2%      18.2%          30.2%           39.5%           36.8%
Dividend payout ratio                                   45.1%        77.4%      65.0%          41.9%           33.6%           35.7%
Free cash flow (9)                                  $  3,147     $  2,806   $  2,332      $   1,876       $   2,951       $   2,215
Economic profit                                     $  2,466     $    861   $  1,128      $   2,480       $   3,325       $   2,718
====================================================================================================================================


<FN>
(1) See Glossary on inside back cover.

(2) In 2001, we adopted SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities."

(3) In 2001,  we adopted  EITF Issue No.  00-14  "Accounting  for Certain  Sales
Incentives" and EITF Issue No. 00-22  "Accounting for 'Points' and Certain Other
Time-Based or Volume-Based  Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products
or Services to be Delivered in the Future." All prior years were reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.

(4) In 1998, we adopted SFAS No. 132 "Employers'  Disclosures about Pensions and
Other Postretirement Benefits."
</FN>

</TABLE>
                                   Page 86


                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                     The Coca-Cola Company and Subsidiaries


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(In millions except per                                           Year Ended December 31,
share data, ratios and            ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
growth rates)                       1995(3)(4)     1994(3)(4)(5)      1993(3)(4)(6)      1992(3)(4)(7)(8)      1991(3)(4)(8)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>            <C>                <C>                <C>                   <C>
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
Net operating revenues              $ 17,753        $ 15,845           $ 13,637           $ 12,769              $ 11,272
Cost of goods sold                     6,940           6,168              5,160              5,055                 4,649
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                          10,813           9,677              8,477              7,714                 6,623
Selling, administrative and
 general expenses                      6,701           6,040              5,328              4,967                 4,301
Other operating charges                   86               -                 50                  -                    13
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                       4,026           3,637              3,099              2,747                 2,309
Interest income                          245             181                144                164                   175
Interest expense                         272             199                168                171                   192
Equity income (loss)                     169             134                 91                 65                    40
Other income (deductions)-net             86             (25)                 7                (59)                   51
Gains on issuances of stock by
 equity investees                         74               -                 12                  -                     -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before income
 taxes and changes in
 accounting principles                 4,328           3,728              3,185              2,746                 2,383
Income taxes                           1,342           1,174                997                863                   765
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles           $  2,986        $  2,554           $  2,188           $  1,883              $  1,618
===============================================================================================================================
Net income                          $  2,986        $  2,554           $  2,176           $  1,664              $  1,618
Preferred stock dividends                  -               -                  -                  -                     1
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income available to
 common share owners                $  2,986        $  2,554           $  2,176           $  1,664              $  1,617
===============================================================================================================================
Average common shares
 outstanding                           2,525           2,580              2,603              2,634                 2,666
Average common shares
 outstanding assuming dilution         2,549           2,599              2,626              2,668                 2,695


PER COMMON SHARE DATA
- ---------------------
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- basic                           $   1.18        $    .99           $    .84           $    .72              $    .61
Income from continuing
 operations before changes
 in accounting principles
 -- diluted                             1.17             .98                .83                .71                   .60
Basic net income                        1.18             .99                .84                .63                   .61
Diluted net income                      1.17             .98                .83                .62                   .60
Cash dividends                           .44             .39                .34                .28                   .24
Market price on December 31,           37.13           25.75              22.31              20.94                 20.06


TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF
 COMMON STOCK (1)                   $ 92,983        $ 65,711           $ 57,905           $ 54,728              $ 53,325
- ---------------------


BALANCE SHEET AND OTHER DATA
- ----------------------------
Cash, cash equivalents and
 current marketable securities      $  1,315        $  1,531           $  1,078           $  1,063              $  1,117
Property, plant and equipment-net      4,336           4,080              3,729              3,526                 2,890
Depreciation                             421             382                333                310                   254
Capital expenditures                     937             878                800              1,083                   792
Total assets                          15,004          13,863             11,998             11,040                10,185
Long-term debt                         1,141           1,426              1,428              1,120                   985
Total debt                             4,064           3,509              3,100              3,207                 2,288
Share-owners' equity                   5,369           5,228              4,570              3,881                 4,236
Total capital (1)                      9,433           8,737              7,670              7,088                 6,524

OTHER KEY FINANCIAL MEASURES (1)
- ----------------------------
Total debt-to-total capital             43.1%           40.2%              40.4%              45.2%                 35.1%
Net debt-to-net capital                 32.3%           25.5%              29.0%              33.1%                 24.2%
Return on common equity                 56.4%           52.1%              51.8%              46.4%                 41.3%
Return on capital                       34.9%           32.8%              31.2%              29.4%                 27.5%
Dividend payout ratio                   37.2%           39.4%              40.6%              44.3%                 39.5%
Free cash flow (9)                  $  2,460        $  2,356           $  1,857           $    875              $    881
Economic profit                     $  2,291        $  1,896           $  1,549           $  1,300              $  1,073
================================================================================================================================

<FN>

(5) In 1994, we adopted SFAS No. 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities."

(6) In 1993, we adopted SFAS No. 112 "Employers'  Accounting for  Postemployment
Benefits."

(7) In 1992, we adopted SFAS No. 106 "Employers'  Accounting for  Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions."

(8) In 1992, we adopted SFAS No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes," by restating
financial statements beginning in 1989.

(9) All years  presented have been restated to exclude net cash flows related to
acquisitions.

</FN>
</TABLE>

                                    Page 87
<PAGE>



                            SHARE-OWNER INFORMATION

COMMON STOCK
Ticker symbol: KO
The  Coca-Cola  Company  is one of 30  companies  in the  Dow  Jones  Industrial
Average.
Share owners of record at year end: 371,794
Shares outstanding at year end: 2.49 billion

STOCK EXCHANGES
Inside the United States:
Common stock listed and traded:  New York Stock Exchange,  the principal  market
for our common stock.
Common stock traded: Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Pacific and Philadelphia stock
exchanges.

Outside the United States:
Common stock listed and traded:  the German  exchange in Frankfurt and the Swiss
exchange in Zurich.

DIVIDENDS
At its February 2002 meeting,  our Board increased our quarterly  dividend to 20
cents per share,  equivalent  to an annual  dividend of 80 cents per share.  The
Company has increased dividends each of the last 40 years.

   The Coca-Cola  Company normally pays dividends four times a year,  usually on
April 1, July 1, October 1 and December 15. The Company has paid 323 consecutive
quarterly dividends, beginning in 1920.

SHARE-OWNER ACCOUNT ASSISTANCE
For address  changes,  dividend  checks,  direct  deposit of dividends,  account
consolidation, registration changes, lost stock certificates, stock holdings and
the Dividend and Cash Investment Plan, please contact:
Registrar and Transfer Agent
EquiServe Trust Company, N.A.
P.O. Box 2500
Jersey City, NJ 07303-2500
Toll-free: (888) COKESHR (265-3747)
For hearing impaired: (201) 222-4955
E-mail: cocacola@equiserve.com
Internet: www.equiserve.com

DIVIDEND AND CASH INVESTMENT PLAN
The Dividend and Cash Investment Plan permits share owners of record to reinvest
dividends  from  Company  stock in shares  of The  Coca-Cola  Company.  The Plan
provides a convenient,  economical and systematic method of acquiring additional
shares  of our  common  stock.  All  share  owners of  record  are  eligible  to
participate. Share owners also may purchase Company stock through voluntary cash
investments of up to $125,000 per year.

   At year end,  76  percent  of the  Company's  share  owners  of  record  were
participants  in the  Plan.  In 2001,  share  owners  invested  $36  million  in
dividends and $31 million in cash in the Plan.

   If your shares are held in street name by your broker and you are  interested
in  participating  in the Dividend and Cash  Investment  Plan, you may have your
broker  transfer the shares to EquiServe  Trust  Company,  N.A.,  electronically
through the Direct Registration System.

   For more details on the Dividend and Cash Investment Plan, please contact the
Plan  Administrator,  EquiServe,  or visit the investor section of our Company's
Web site, www.coca-cola.com, for more information.

SHARE-OWNER INTERNET ACCOUNT ACCESS
Share  owners of record may access  their  accounts  via the  Internet to obtain
share balance,  conduct secure  transactions,  request  printable forms and view
current market value of their investment as well as historical stock prices.

   To log on to this  secure  site and  request  your  initial  password,  go to
www.equiserve.com and click on "Account Access."

ANNUAL MEETING OF SHARE OWNERS
April 17, 2002, 9:30 a.m., local time
The Theater at Madison Square Garden
Seventh Avenue between W. 31st and W. 33rd Streets
New York, New York

CORPORATE OFFICES
The Coca-Cola Company
One Coca-Cola Plaza
Atlanta, Georgia 30313

INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR INQUIRIES
(404) 676-5766

INFORMATION RESOURCES

Internet
Our  Web  site,  www.coca-cola.com,   offers  information  about  our  financial
performance, news about the Company and brand experiences.

Publications
The Company's Annual Report,  Proxy  Statement,  Form 10-K and Form 10-Q reports
are available free of charge upon request from our Industry and Consumer Affairs
Department at the Company's corporate address, listed above.

Hotline
The Company's hotline,  (800) INVSTKO  (468-7856),  offers taped highlights from
the most recent quarter and may be used to request the most up-to-date quarterly
results news release.

Audio Annual Report
An audiocassette version of this report is available without charge as a service
to the  visually  impaired.  To receive a copy,  please  contact our  Industry &
Consumer Affairs Department at (800) 571-2653.

Duplicate Mailings
If you are receiving  duplicate or unwanted copies of our Annual Report,  please
contact EquiServe at (888) COKESHR (265-3747).


                                    Page 90


<PAGE>



                                    GLOSSARY


BOTTLING  PARTNER  OR  BOTTLER:   businesses  --  generally,   but  not  always,
independently owned -- that buy concentrates or syrups from the Company, convert
them into finished packaged products and sell them to customers.

CARBONATED SOFT DRINK:  nonalcoholic  carbonated beverage containing  flavorings
and sweeteners. Excludes waters and flavored waters, juices and juice-based
beverages, sports drinks, and teas and coffees.

THE COCA-COLA SYSTEM: The Company and its bottling partners.

COMPANY:  The Coca-Cola Company together with its subsidiaries.

CONCENTRATE  OR  BEVERAGE  BASE:  material   manufactured  from  Company-defined
ingredients and sold to bottlers to prepare  finished  beverages  marketed under
trademarks of the Company through the addition of sweeteners and/or water.

CONSOLIDATED  BOTTLING  OPERATION  (CBO):  bottler in which the Company  holds a
controlling interest.  The bottler's financial results are consolidated into the
Company's financial statements.

CONSUMER: person who drinks Company products.

COST OF CAPITAL:  blended  cost of equity and  borrowed  funds used to invest in
operating capital required for business.

CUSTOMER:  retail  outlet,  restaurant or other  operation  that sells or serves
Company products directly to consumers.

DERIVATIVES:  contracts or agreements,  the value of which is linked to interest
rates, exchange rates, prices of securities,  or financial or commodity indices.
The Company uses  derivatives to reduce its exposure to adverse  fluctuations in
interest  and exchange  rates and other market  risks.

DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO:  calculated by dividing cash dividends on common stock by
net income available to common share owners.

ECONOMIC PROFIT: income from continuing operations, after giving effect to taxes
and excluding the effects of interest,  in excess of a computed  capital  charge
for average operating capital employed.

ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED: growth in economic profit from year to year.

FOUNTAIN: system used by retail outlets to dispense product into cups or glasses
for immediate consumption.

FREE  CASH  FLOW:  cash  provided  by  operations  less  cash  used in  business
reinvestment.  The  Company  uses free cash flow  along with  borrowings  to pay
dividends, make share repurchases and make acquisitions.

GALLONS:  unit of  measurement  for  concentrates,  syrups  and  other  beverage
products  (expressed in equivalent  gallons of syrup) included by the Company in
unit-case volume.

GROSS MARGIN: calculated by dividing gross profit by net operating revenues.

INTEREST  COVERAGE  RATIO:  income before taxes  (excluding  unusual items) plus
interest  expense,  divided  by the  sum of  interest  expense  and  capitalized
interest.

KO: the ticker symbol for common stock of The Coca-Cola Company.

MARKET:  geographic  area in which the  Company  and its  bottling  partners  do
business, often defined by national boundaries.

NET CAPITAL: calculated by adding share-owners' equity to net debt.

NET DEBT: calculated by subtracting from debt the sum of cash, cash equivalents,
marketable  securities  and certain  temporary  bottling  investments,  less the
amount of cash determined to be necessary for operations.

NONCARBONATED BEVERAGES: nonalcoholic noncarbonated beverages including, without
limitation, waters and flavored waters, juices and juice-based beverages, sports
drinks, and teas and coffees.

OPERATING  MARGIN:  calculated  by dividing  operating  income by net  operating
revenues.

PER  CAPITA  CONSUMPTION:  average  number  of  eight-U.S.-fluid-ounce  servings
consumed per person,  per year in a specific market.  Per capita  consumption of
Company  products is calculated by  multiplying  our unit-case volume by 24, and
dividing by the population.

RETURN ON CAPITAL:  calculated  by dividing  income from  continuing  operations
(before  changes in  accounting  principles,  adding back  interest  expense) by
average total capital.

RETURN  ON  COMMON  EQUITY:   calculated  by  dividing  income  from  continuing
operations  (before  changes in  accounting  principles,  less  preferred  stock
dividends) by average common share-owners' equity.

SERVING: eight U.S. fluid ounces of a beverage.

SYRUP:  concentrate  mixed  with  sweetener  and  water,  sold to  bottlers  and
customers who add carbonated water to produce finished carbonated soft drinks.

TOTAL CAPITAL: equals share-owners' equity plus interest-bearing debt.

TOTAL MARKET VALUE OF COMMON STOCK:  stock price as of a date  multiplied by the
number of shares outstanding as of the same date.

UNIT CASE: unit of measurement equal to 24 eight-U.S.-fluid-ounce servings.

UNIT CASE VOLUME, OR VOLUME: the number of unit cases (or unit case equivalents)
of Company  trademark or licensed  beverage products directly or indirectly sold
by the Coca-Cola  bottling  system or by the Company to customers.  Includes (i)
beverage  products bearing  trademarks  licensed to the Company and (ii) certain
key products owned by Coca-Cola system bottlers.

ENVIRONMENTAL  STATEMENT:  Our  Company's  approach to  environmental  issues is
guided by a simple principle:  We will conduct our business in ways that protect
and preserve the environment.  Throughout our organization, our employees at all
levels are determined to integrate our Company's environmental management system
(eKOsystem)  throughout  all  business  units  worldwide.  We use the results of
research  and  new  technology  to  minimize  the  environmental  impact  of our
operations,  products  and  packages.  And, we seek to  cooperate  with  public,
private and governmental  organizations  in pursuing  solutions to environmental
challenges, directing our Company's skills, energies and resources to activities
and issues where we can make a positive and effective contribution.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY  POLICY:  The Coca-Cola Company and its subsidiaries  employed
approximately   38,000  employees  as  of  December  31,  2001.  We  maintain  a
long-standing  commitment to equal  opportunity,  affirmative action and valuing
the diversity of our  employees,  share owners,  customers  and  consumers.  The
Company  strives  to create a working  environment  free of  discrimination  and
harassment with respect to race, sex, color,  national  origin,  religion,  age,
sexual orientation,  disability, status as a special disabled veteran, a veteran
of the Vietnam era, or other covered veteran.  The Company also makes reasonable
accommodations in the employment of qualified individuals with disabilities. The
Company  maintains  ongoing  contact  with labor and  employee  associations  to
develop relationships that foster responsive and mutually beneficial discussions
pertaining to labor  issues.  These  associations  have provided a mechanism for
positive  industrial   relations.   In  addition,   we  provide  fair  marketing
opportunities  to all suppliers and maintain  programs to increase  transactions
with firms that are owned and operated by minorities and women.




























































</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>21
<FILENAME>x21-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 21.1

                     Subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company
                            As of December 31, 2001

                                                        Organized    Percentages
                                                          Under       of Voting
                                                         Laws of:       Power
                                                        ----------   -----------
The Coca-Cola Company                                   Delaware
   Subsidiaries:

   Barq's, Inc.                                         Mississippi     100
   Bottling Investments Corporation                     Delaware        100
     ACCBC Holding Company                              Georgia         100
   Caribbean Refrescos, Inc.                            Delaware        100
     CRI Financial Corporation, Inc.                    Delaware        100
   Coca-Cola Oasis, Inc.                                Delaware        100
     Caribbean International Sales Corporation, Inc.    Nevada          100
     Carolina Coca-Cola Bottling Investments, Inc.      Delaware        100
   Coca-Cola Financial Corporation                      Delaware        100
   Coca-Cola Interamerican Corporation                  Delaware        100
     Montevideo Refrescos, S.A.                         Uruguay          64.59
     Paraguay Refrescos, S.A.                           Paraguay         95.25
   Coca-Cola Refreshment Products Co. Ltd.              Japan           100
   Coca-Cola South Asia Holdings, Inc.                  Delaware        100
     Coca-Cola (China) Investment Ltd.                  China           100
      Coca-Cola (China)Beverages Limited                China           100
     Coca-Cola Beverages Vietnam                        Vietnam          77.70
     Coca-Cola India Limited                            India           100
     Coca-Cola (Thailand) Limited                       Thailand        100
     F & N CC Private Limited                           Singapore       100
   Coca-Cola Tea Products Co. Ltd.                      Japan           100
   CTI Holdings, Inc.                                   Delaware        100
     55th & 5th Avenue Corporation                      New York        100
   Odwalla, Inc.                                        Delaware        100
   Piedmont Partnership Holding Company                 Delaware        100
   The Coca-Cola Export Corporation                     Delaware        100
    Atlantic Industries                                 Cayman Islands  100
     Coca-Cola Holdings (Asia) Limited                  Japan           100
     Coca-Cola Holdings (Middle East
             and North Africa) E.C.                     Bahrain         100
     Schweppes Namibia (Prop) Ltd.                      Namibia         100
    Barlan, Inc.                                        Delaware        100
       Coca-Cola Beverages Norway                       Norway          100
       Soft Drinks Holdings S.N.C.                      France          100
       Varoise de Concentres S.A.                       France          100
       Hindustan Coca-Cola Holdings Pvt. Ltd.           India           100
         Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Pvt. Ltd.        India           100
       S.A. Coca-Cola Financial Services N.V.           Belgium          99.20
    Beverage Products, Ltd.                             Delaware        100
      Beverage Brands, S.A.                             Peru             50
       Corporacion Inca Kola                            Peru             50
    CCHBC Grouping Inc.                                 Delaware        100
    Coca-Cola Africa Limited                            Kenya           100
    Coca-Cola Beverages Japan                           Japan           100
    Coca-Cola Beverages of Estonia, Ltd.                Estonia         100



<PAGE>


                     Subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company
                            As of December 31, 2001

continued from page 1

                                                         Organized   Percentages
                                                          Under       of Voting
                                                         Laws of:       Power
                                                        ----------   -----------
    Coca-Cola Bottlers of Sweden                        Sweden          100
    Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa (Pty) Limited  South Africa     51.55
    Coca-Cola China Limited                             Hong Kong       100
    Coca-Cola de Argentina S.A.                         Argentina       100
    Coca-Cola de Chile S.A.                             Chile           100
    Coca-Cola de Colombia, S.A.                         Colombia        100
    Coca-Cola G.m.b.H.                                  Germany         100
    Coca-Cola Ges.m.b.H.                                Austria         100
    Coca-Cola Holdings West Japan, Inc.                 Japan           100
    Coca-Cola Industrias Ltda.                          Brazil          100
     CCSI-Industria de Refrigerantes Ltda               Brazil           99.94
     Recofarma Industria do Amazonas Ltda.              Brazil          100
    Coca-Cola Ltd.                                      Canada          100
     The Minute Maid Company Canada Inc.                Canada          100
    Coca-Cola (Japan) Company, Limited                  Japan           100
    Coca-Cola Korea Company, Limited                    Korea           100
    Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited                           Nigeria         100
    Coca-Cola Overseas Parent Limited                   Delaware        100
      Coca-Cola Holdings (Overseas) Limited             Delaware &      100
                                                         Australia
    Coca-Cola Southern Africa (Pty) Limited             South Africa    100
    Conco Limited                                       Cayman Islands  100
    International Beverages                             Ireland         100
    Minute Maid SA                                      Switzerland     100
    Refreshment Product Services, Inc.                  Delaware        100
     Coca-Cola Holdings (Nederland) B.V.                Netherlands     100
     Coca-Cola Holdings (United Kingdom) Limited        England and     100
                                                         Wales
      Beverage Services Ltd.                            England and     100
                                                         Wales
     Coca-Cola Italia SRL                               Italy           100
     Coca-Cola Hungary Services, Ltd.                   Hungary          90
     Soft Drink Services Co.                            Delaware        100
        SA Coca-Cola Services NV                        Belgium         100
     Coca-Cola Mesrubat Pazarlama ve Danismanlik
        Hizmetleri A.S.                                 Turkey          100
      Coca-Cola Norge A/S                               Norway          100
      Coca-Cola South Pacific Pty. Limited              Australia       100
    Refrescos Envasados S.A.                            Spain           100
      Compania de Servicios de Bebidas Refrescantes SLR Spain            99.99
    The Inmex Corporation                               Florida         100
     Servicios Integrados de Administracion
        y Alta Gerencia, S.A. de C.V.                   Mexico          100


                                      2
<PAGE>


                     Subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company
                            As of December 31, 2001


continued from page 2



Other subsidiaries whose combined size is not significant:
     11 domestic wholly owned subsidiaries consolidated
    103 foreign wholly owned subsidiaries consolidated
      5 foreign majority-owned subsidiaries consolidated




                                      3

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>22
<FILENAME>x23-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG
<TEXT>
                                                                  Exhibit 23.1

                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K of The Coca-Cola Company of our report dated January 25, 2002, included in
the 2001 Annual Report to Share Owners of The Coca-Cola Company.

     Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of The Coca-Cola
Company listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of The
Coca-Cola Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
based on our audits. In our opinion, with respect to which the date is January
25, 2002, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration
statements and related prospectuses of The Coca-Cola Company listed below of our
report dated January 25, 2002 with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of The Coca-Cola Company incorporated herein by reference, and our
report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial
statement schedule included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2001:

        1.  Registration Statement Number 2-88085 on Form S-8
        2.  Registration Statement Number 33-21529 on Form S-8
        3.  Registration Statement Number 33-39840 on Form S-8
        4.  Registration Statement Number 333-78763 on Form S-8
        5.  Registration Statement Number 2-58584 on Form S-8
        6.  Registration Statement Number 33-26251 on Form S-8
        7.  Registration Statement Number 2-79973 on Form S-3
        8.  Registration Statement Number 2-98787 on Form S-3
        9.  Registration Statement Number 33-21530 on Form S-3
        10. Registration Statement Number 33-45763 on Form S-3
        11. Registration Statement Number 33-50743 on Form S-3
        12. Registration Statement Number 33-61531 on Form S-3
        13. Registration Statement Number 333-27607 on Form S-8
        14. Registration Statement Number 333-35298 on Form S-8
        15. Registration Statement Number 333-59936 on Form S-3
        16. Registration Statement Number 333-59938 on Form S-3
        17. Registration Statement Number 333-83270 on Form S-8
        18. Registration Statement Number 333-83290 on Form S-8



ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Atlanta, Georgia
March 11, 2002


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24.1
<SEQUENCE>23
<FILENAME>x24-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>POWERS OF ATTORNEY
<TEXT>
                                                                  EXHIBIT 24.1

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and a Director of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"),
do hereby appoint BRIAN G. DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of
the Company, GARY P. FAYARD, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the Company, DEVAL L. PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel
of the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES,
Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on my
behalf in any and all capacities the Company's Annual Report for the year ended
December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or any amendment or supplement thereto, and
causing such Annual Report or any such amendment or supplement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Douglas N. Daft
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Chairman of the Board,
                                        Chief Executive Officer and Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company
<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, BRIAN G. DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint
DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director
of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, DEVAL L. PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C.
HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any one of them, my true and
lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on
my behalf in any and all capacities the Company's Annual Report for the year
ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or any amendment or supplement thereto,
and causing such Annual Report or any such amendment or supplement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Brian G. Dyson
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Vice Chairman
                                        and Chief Operating Officer
                                        The Coca-Cola Company
<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, GARY P. FAYARD, Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby
appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a
Director of the Company, BRIAN G.DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company, DEVAL L. PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C.
HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any one of them, my true and
lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on
my behalf in any and all capacities the Company's Annual Report for the year
ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or any amendment or supplement thereto,
and causing such Annual Report or any such amendment or supplement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Gary P. Fayard
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Senior Vice President
                                        and Chief Financial Officer
                                        The Coca-Cola Company
<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, CONNIE D. MCDANIEL, Vice President and
Controller of The Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS
N. DAFT, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the
Company, BRIAN G. DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company, GARY P. FAYARD, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company, DEVAL L. PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES,
Assistant Secretary of the Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful
attorneys-in- fact for me and in my name for the purpose of executing on my
behalf in any and all capacities the Company's Annual Report for the year ended
December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or any amendment or supplement thereto, and
causing such Annual Report or any such amendment or supplement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Connie D. McDaniel
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Vice President and Controller
                                        The Coca-Cola Company
<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, HERBERT A. ALLEN, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Herbert A. Allen
                                        -------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company
<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, RONALD W. ALLEN, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Ronald W. Allen
                                        -------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, CATHLEEN P. BLACK, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Cathleen P. Black
                                        -------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company

<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, WARREN E. BUFFETT, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.




                                        /s/ Warren E. Buffett
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company

<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, SUSAN B. KING, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.




                                        /s/ Susan B. King
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, DONALD F. MCHENRY, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.




                                        /s/ Donald F. McHenry
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, SAM NUNN, a Director of The Coca-Cola
Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman of the
Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G. DYSON,
Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD, Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L. PATRICK,
Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E. SHAW,
Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Sam Nunn
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company

<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, PAUL F. OREFFICE, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ Paul F. Oreffice
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company


<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, JAMES D. ROBINSON III, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                        /s/ James D. Robinson III
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company

<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, PETER V. UEBERROTH, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.


                                       /s/ Peter V. Ueberroth
                                       ---------------------------------------
                                       Director
                                       The Coca-Cola Company


<PAGE>

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS THAT I, JAMES B. WILLIAMS, a Director of The
Coca-Cola Company (the "Company"), do hereby appoint DOUGLAS N. DAFT, Chairman
of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, BRIAN G.
DYSON, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, GARY P. FAYARD,
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, DEVAL L.
PATRICK, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, SUSAN E.
SHAW, Secretary of the Company, and CAROL C. HAYES, Assistant Secretary of the
Company, or any one of them, my true and lawful attorneys-in-fact for me and in
my name for the purpose of executing on my behalf in any and all capacities the
Company's Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2001 on Form 10-K, or
any amendment or supplement thereto, and causing such Annual Report or any such
amendment or supplement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of February
2002.




                                        /s/ James B. Williams
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Director
                                        The Coca-Cola Company



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>24
<FILENAME>x99.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELATING TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
<TEXT>
                                                                EXHIBIT 99.1

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELATIVE TO FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
- -----------------------------------------------------------

Certain written and oral statements made by our Company and subsidiaries or with
the approval of an authorized  executive  officer of our Company may  constitute
"forward- looking statements" as defined under the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995,  including  statements made in this report and other filings
with the Securities and Exchange  Commission.  Generally,  the words  "believe,"
"expect,"  "intend,"  "estimate,"  "anticipate,"  "project,"  "will" and similar
expressions  identify  forward-looking  statements,   which  generally  are  not
historical in nature. All statements which address operating performance, events
or  developments  that we  expect  or  anticipate  will  occur in the  future --
including  statements relating to volume growth, share of sales and earnings per
share growth, and statements  expressing general optimism about future operating
results  --  are  forward-looking  statements.  Forward-looking  statements  are
subject to certain risks and  uncertainties  that could cause actual  results to
differ  materially  from our  Company's  historical  experience  and our present
expectations or projections.  As and when made,  management  believes that these
forward-looking statements are reasonable.  However, caution should be taken not
to place  undue  reliance on any such  forward-  looking  statements  since such
statements  speak  only as of the date when  made.  The  Company  undertakes  no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,  whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

The following are some of the factors that could cause our Company's actual
results to differ materially from the expected results described in or
underlying our Company's forward-looking statements:

- -    Foreign currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and other
     capital market conditions. Most of our exposures to capital markets,
     including foreign currency and interest, are managed on a consolidated
     basis, which allows us to net certain exposures and, thus, take advantage
     of any natural offsets. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce
     our net exposure to financial risks. There can be no assurance, however,
     that our financial risk management program will be successful in reducing
     capital market exposures.

- -    Changes in the nonalcoholic beverages business environment. These include,
     without limitation, changes in consumer preferences, competitive product
     and pricing pressures and our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in
     the global market as a result of actions by competitors. While we believe
     our opportunities for sustained, profitable growth are considerable,
     factors such as these could impact our earnings, share of sales and volume
     growth.


<PAGE>

- -    Adverse weather conditions, which could reduce demand for Company products.

- -    Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion
     plans, share repurchase programs and general operating activities.

- -    Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards,
     taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised
     tax law interpretations) and environmental laws in domestic or foreign
     jurisdictions.

- -    The effectiveness of our advertising, marketing and promotional programs.

- -    Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and the ability
     to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships.

- -    Our ability to achieve earnings forecasts, which are generated based on
     projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more
     profitable than others. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the
     projected level or mix of product sales.

- -    Economic and political conditions, especially in international markets,
     including civil unrest, governmental changes and restrictions on the
     ability to transfer capital across borders.

- -    Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which also
     depends on economic and political conditions, and how well we are able to
     acquire or form strategic business alliances with local bottlers and make
     necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities,
     distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Moreover, the supply
     of products in developing markets must match the customers' demand for
     those products, and due to product price and cultural differences, there
     can be no assurance of product acceptance in any particular market.

- -    The uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties
     detailed from time to time in our Company's Securities and Exchange
     Commission filings.

The foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive.


                                       2


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
