CurrentFiscalYearEndDate: --09-29
DocumentType: 10-K
AmendmentFlag: false
DocumentPeriodEndDate: 2012-09-29
DocumentFiscalYearFocus: 2012
DocumentFiscalPeriodFocus: FY
TradingSymbol: AAPL
EntityRegistrantName: APPLE INC
EntityCentralIndexKey: 0000320193
EntityWellKnownSeasonedIssuer: Yes
EntityCurrentReportingStatus: Yes
EntityVoluntaryFilers: No
EntityFilerCategory: Large Accelerated Filer
EntityCommonStockSharesOutstanding: {'decimals': 'INF', 'unitRef': 'shares', 'period': {'instant': '2012-10-19'}, 'value': '940692000'}
EntityPublicFloat: {'decimals': '0', 'unitRef': 'iso4217_USD', 'period': {'instant': '2012-03-30'}, 'value': '560356000000'}
 Item 1. Business ##TABLE_END Company Background 

The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and portable digital music players, and sells a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company&#146;s products and services include iPhone &#174; , iPad &#174; , Mac &#174; , iPod &#174; , Apple TV &#174; , a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, the iOS and OS X &#174; operating systems, iCloud &#174; , and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings. The Company also sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store &#174; , App Store SM , iBookstore SM , and Mac App Store. The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod compatible products, including application software, and various accessories, through its online and retail stores. The Company sells to consumers; small and mid-sized businesses (&#147;SMB&#148;); and education, enterprise and government customers. The Company&#146;s fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September. Unless otherwise stated, all information presented in this Form 10-K is based on the Company&#146;s fiscal calendar. The Company is a California corporation established in 1977. 

Business Strategy 

The Company is committed to bringing the best user experience to its customers through its innovative hardware, software, peripherals, and services. The Company&#146;s business strategy leverages its unique ability to design and develop its own operating systems, hardware, application software, and services to provide its customers new products and solutions with superior ease-of-use, seamless integration, and innovative design. The Company believes continual investment in research and development, marketing and advertising is critical to the development and sale of innovative products and technologies. As part of its strategy, the Company continues to expand its platform for the discovery and delivery of third-party digital content and applications through the iTunes Store. As part of the iTunes Store, the Company&#146;s App Store and iBookstore allow customers to discover and download applications and books through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through &#147;iOS devices,&#148; namely iPhone, iPad and iPod touch &#174; . The Company&#146;s Mac App Store allows customers to easily discover, download and install Mac applications. The Company also supports a community for the development of third-party software and hardware products and digital content that complement the Company&#146;s offerings. The Company&#146;s strategy also includes expanding its distribution network to effectively reach more customers and provide them with a high-quality sales and post-sales support experience. 

&#160; 

Consumer and Small and Mid-Sized Business 

The Company believes a high-quality buying experience with knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the Company&#146;s products and services greatly enhances its ability to attract and retain customers. The Company sells its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to consumers and SMBs through its retail and online stores. The Company has also invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of product expertise, integration and support services. 

The Company&#146;s retail stores are typically located at high-traffic locations in quality shopping malls and urban shopping districts. By operating its own stores and locating them in desirable high-traffic locations the Company is better positioned to ensure a high quality customer buying experience and attract new customers. The stores are designed to simplify and enhance the presentation and marketing of the Company&#146;s products and related solutions. To that end, retail store configurations have evolved into various sizes to accommodate market-specific demands. The Company believes providing direct contact with its customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors. The stores employ experienced and knowledgeable personnel who provide product advice, service and training. The stores offer a wide selection of third-party hardware, software, and other accessories and peripherals that complement the Company&#146;s products. 

Education 

The Company is committed to delivering solutions to help educators teach and students learn. The Company believes effective integration of technology into classroom instruction can result in higher levels of student achievement and has designed a range of products, services and programs to address the needs of education customers. The Company also supports mobile learning and real-time distribution of, and access to, education related materials through iTunes U &#174; , a platform that allows students and teachers to share and distribute educational media online. The Company sells its products to the education market through its direct sales force, select third-party resellers and its online and retail stores. 

Enterprise and Government 

The Company also sells its hardware and software products to enterprise and government customers in each of its geographic segments. The Company&#146;s products are deployed in these markets because of their performance, productivity, ease of use and seamless integration into information technology environments. The Company&#146;s products are compatible with thousands of third-party business applications and services, and its tools enable the development and secure deployment of custom applications as well as remote device administration. 

Business Organization 

The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. Accordingly, the Company determined its reportable operating segments, which are generally based on the nature and location of its customers, to be the Americas, Europe, Japan, Asia-Pacific and Retail. The results of the Americas, Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific segments do not include results of the Retail segment. The Americas segment includes both North and South America. The Europe segment includes European countries, as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Asia-Pacific segment includes Australia and Asian countries, other than Japan. The Retail segment operates Apple retail stores in 13 countries, including the U.S. Each operating segment provides similar hardware and software products and similar services. Further information regarding the Company&#146;s operating segments may be found in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading &#147;Segment Operating Performance,&#148; and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 8, &#147;Segment Information and Geographic Data.&#148; 

&#160; 

Products 

The Company offers a range of mobile communication and media devices, personal computing products, and portable digital music players, as well as a variety of related software, services, peripherals, networking solutions and third-party hardware and software products. In addition, the Company offers its own software products, including iOS, the Company&#146;s mobile operating system; OS X, the Company&#146;s Mac operating system; and server and application software. The Company&#146;s primary products are discussed below. 

iPhone 

iPhone combines a mobile phone, an iPod, and an Internet communications device in a single handheld product. Based on the Company&#146;s Multi-Touch&#153; user interface, iPhone features desktop-class email, web browsing, searching, and maps and is compatible with both Mac and Windows-based computers. iPhone automatically syncs content from users&#146; iTunes libraries, as well as contacts, bookmarks, and email accounts. iPhone allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video files, as well as a variety of other digital content and applications. In September 2012, the Company launched iPhone 5, its latest version of iPhone. In addition to the Company&#146;s own iPhone accessories, third-party iPhone compatible accessories are available through the Company&#146;s online and retail stores and from third parties. 

iPad 

iPad is a multi-purpose mobile device for browsing the web, reading and sending email, viewing photos, watching videos, listening to music, playing games, reading e-books and more. iPad is based on the Company&#146;s Multi-Touch technology and allows customers to connect with their applications and content in a more interactive way. iPad allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video files, as well as a variety of other digital content and applications. In March 2012, the Company launched the new iPad, its third generation iPad, and in October 2012, the Company announced its fourth generation iPad and iPad mini, which are expected to be available in November 2012. In addition to the Company&#146;s own iPad accessories, third-party iPad compatible accessories are available through the Company&#146;s online and retail stores and from third parties. 

Mac 

The Company offers a range of personal computing products including desktop and portable computers, related devices and peripherals, and third-party hardware products. The Company&#146;s Mac desktop and portable systems feature Intel microprocessors, the OS X operating system and the iLife &#174; suite of software for creation and management of digital photography, music, movies, DVDs and websites. 

The Company&#146;s desktop computers include iMac &#174; , Mac Pro &#174; and Mac mini. The Company&#146;s portable computers include MacBook Pro &#174; and MacBook Air &#174; . 

iPod 

The Company&#146;s iPod line of portable digital music and media players includes iPod touch, iPod nano &#174; , iPod shuffle &#174; and iPod classic &#174; . All iPods work with iTunes. In addition to the Company&#146;s own iPod accessories, third-party iPod-compatible accessories are available through the Company&#146;s online and retail stores and from third parties. 

The iPod touch, based on iOS, is a flash-memory-based iPod with a widescreen Retina&#153; display, a Multi-Touch user interface, and built-in iSight &#174; camera. iPod touch allows customers to access the iTunes Store to download audio and video content, as well as a variety of digital applications. The iPod nano is a flash-memory-based iPod that features the Company&#146;s Multi-Touch interface allowing customers to navigate their music collection by tapping or swiping the display and built-in Bluetooth for wireless listening. The iPod shuffle is a flash-memory- 

&#160; 

based iPod that features a clickable control pad to control music playback and VoiceOver technology enabling customers to hear song titles, artists and playlist names. The iPod classic is a hard-drive based portable digital music and video player. 

iTunes &#174; 

iTunes is an application that supports the purchase, download, organization and playback of digital audio and video files and is available for both Mac and Windows-based computers. iTunes features integration with iCloud, AirPlay &#174; wireless music playback, Genius Mixes, Home Sharing, and syncing functionality with iOS devices . 

iTunes is integrated with the iTunes Store, a service that allows customers to discover, purchase, rent, and download digital content and applications. The iTunes Store includes the App Store and iBookstore. The App Store allows customers to discover and download applications, and the iBookstore features electronic books from major and independent publishers and allows customers to preview and buy books for their iOS devices. Customers can access the App Store through either a Mac or Windows-based computer or through an iOS device. The iBookstore is accessed through the iBooks &#174; application on an iOS device. 

Mac App Store 

The Mac App Store allows customers to discover, download and install Mac applications. The Mac App Store offers applications in education, games, graphics and design, lifestyle, productivity, utilities and other categories. The Company&#146;s OS X operating system software and its iLife, iWork &#174; and other application software titles are also available on the Mac App Store. 

iCloud 

iCloud is the Company&#146;s cloud service, which stores music, photos, applications, contacts, calendars, and documents and wirelessly pushes them to multiple iOS devices, Mac and Windows-based computers. iCloud&#146;s features include iTunes in the Cloud, Photo Stream, Documents in the Cloud, Contacts, Calendar, Mail, automatic downloads and purchase history for applications and iBooks, and iCloud Backup. Users can sign up for free access to iCloud using a device running qualifying versions of iOS or OS X. 

Software Products 

The Company offers a range of software products for consumers and for SMB, education, enterprise and government customers, including the Company&#146;s iOS and OS X operating system software; server software; professional application software; and consumer, education, and business oriented application software. 

Operating System Software 

iOS 

iOS is the Company&#146;s mobile operating system that serves as the foundation for iOS devices. In September 2012, the Company released iOS 6, the latest version of its mobile operating system. iOS supports iCloud and includes features such as Notification Center, a way to view and manage notifications in one place; iMessage&#153;, a messaging service that allows users to send text messages, photos and videos between iOS devices; and Maps, with turn-by-turn navigation. iOS supports Siri &#174; , a voice activated intelligent assistant, which is available on qualifying iOS devices. 

&#160; 

OS X 

OS X, the Company&#146;s Mac operating system, is built on an open-source UNIX-based foundation. OS X Mountain Lion is the ninth major release of OS X and became available in July 2012. OS X Mountain Lion includes iCloud integration, Notification Center, iMessage, and system-wide support for full screen applications. 

Application Software 

iLife 

iLife is the Company&#146;s consumer-oriented digital lifestyle application suite included with all Mac computers. iLife features iPhoto &#174; , iMovie &#174; , iDVD &#174; , GarageBand &#174; , and iWeb&#153;. iPhoto is the Company&#146;s consumer-oriented digital photo application and iMovie is the Company&#146;s consumer-oriented digital video editing software application. iDVD is the Company&#146;s consumer-oriented software application that enables customers to turn iMovie files, QuickTime files, and digital pictures into interactive DVDs. GarageBand is the Company&#146;s consumer-oriented music creation application that allows customers to play, record and create music. iWeb allows customers to create online photo albums, blogs and podcasts, and to customize websites using editing tools. 

iWork 

iWork is the Company&#146;s integrated productivity suite designed to help users create, present, and publish documents, presentations, and spreadsheets. iWork includes Pages &#174; for word processing and page layout, Keynote &#174; for presentations, and Numbers &#174; for spreadsheets. The Company also has a Multi-Touch version of each iWork application designed specifically for use on iOS devices. 

Other Application Software 

The Company also sells various other application software, including Final Cut Pro &#174; , Logic Studio &#174; , Logic &#174; Pro, and its FileMaker &#174; Pro database software. 

Displays &#38; Peripheral Products 

The Company manufactures the Apple LED Cinema Display&#153; and Thunderbolt Display. The Company also sells a variety of Apple-branded and third-party Mac-compatible and iOS-compatible peripheral products, including printers, storage devices, computer memory, digital video and still cameras, and various other computing products and supplies. 

Apple TV 

Apple TV allows customers to watch movies and television shows on their high definition television. Content from iTunes, Netflix, YouTube, and Flickr as well as music, photos, videos, and podcasts from a Mac or Windows-based computer can also be wirelessly streamed to a television through Apple TV. 

Product Support and Services 

AppleCare &#174; offers a range of support options for the Company&#146;s customers. These include assistance that is built into software products, printed and electronic product manuals, online support including comprehensive product information as well as technical assistance, the AppleCare Protection Plan (&#147;APP&#148;) and the AppleCare+ Protection Plan (&#147;APP+&#148;). APP is a fee-based service that typically includes two to three years of phone support, hardware repairs and dedicated web-based support resources. APP+ is a fee-based service available in certain countries for iPhone and iPad. APP+ offers coverage for two instances of accidental damage in addition to the services offered by APP. 

&#160; 

Markets and Distribution 

The Company&#146;s customers are primarily in the consumer, SMB, education, enterprise and government markets. The Company uses a variety of direct and indirect distribution channels, such as its retail stores, online stores, and direct sales force, and third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. The Company believes that sales of its innovative and differentiated products are enhanced by knowledgeable salespersons who can convey the value of the hardware and software integration, and demonstrate the unique solutions that are available on its products. The Company further believes providing direct contact with its targeted customers is an effective way to demonstrate the advantages of its products over those of its competitors and providing a high-quality sales and after-sales support experience is critical to attracting new and retaining existing customers. To ensure a high-quality buying experience for its products in which service and education are emphasized, the Company continues to expand and improve its distribution capabilities by expanding the number of its own retail stores worldwide. Additionally, the Company has invested in programs to enhance reseller sales by placing high quality Apple fixtures, merchandising materials and other resources within selected third-party reseller locations. Through the Apple Premium Reseller Program, certain third-party resellers focus on the Apple platform by providing a high level of integration and support services, and product expertise. 

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in 2012, 2011 or 2010. 

Competition 

The markets for the Company&#146;s products and services are highly competitive and the Company is confronted by aggressive competition in all areas of its business. These markets are characterized by frequent product introductions and rapid technological advances that have substantially increased the capabilities and use of mobile communication and media devices, personal computers, and other digital electronic devices. The Company&#146;s competitors who sell mobile devices and personal computers based on other operating systems have aggressively cut prices and lowered their product margins to gain or maintain market share. The Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results can be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide downward pressures on gross margins. Principal competitive factors important to the Company include price, product features, relative price/performance, product quality and reliability, design innovation, a strong third-party software and peripherals ecosystem, marketing and distribution capability, service and support, and corporate reputation. 

The Company is focused on expanding its market opportunities related to personal computers and mobile communication and media devices. These markets are highly competitive and include several large, well-funded and experienced participants. The Company expects competition in these markets to intensify significantly as competitors attempt to imitate some of the features of the Company&#146;s products and applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. These markets are characterized by aggressive pricing practices, frequent product introductions, evolving design approaches and technologies, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. 

The Company&#146;s digital content services have faced significant competition from other companies promoting their own digital music and content products and services, including those offering free peer-to-peer music and video services. 

The Company&#146;s future financial condition and operating results depend on the Company&#146;s ability to continue to develop and offer new innovative products and services in each of the markets in which it competes. The Company believes it offers superior innovation and integration of the entire solution including the hardware (iPhone, iPad, Mac, and iPod), software (iTunes), online services (iCloud), and distribution of digital content and applications (iTunes Store, App Store, iBookstore and Mac App Store). Some of the Company&#146;s current and potential competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the Company&#146;s offerings. 

&#160; 

Supply of Components 

Although most components essential to the Company&#146;s business are generally available from multiple sources, a number of components are currently obtained from single or limited sources, which subjects the Company to significant supply and pricing risks. Many components, including those that are available from multiple sources, are at times subject to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. In addition, the Company has entered into various agreements for the supply of components; however, there can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar terms, or at all. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and price increases that can materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. 

The Company and other participants in the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company also uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of these industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers&#146; yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. If the Company&#146;s supply of components for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, or if an outsourcing partner delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company&#146;s business and financial performance could also be materially adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers concentrated on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company&#146;s requirements. 

Substantially all of the Company&#146;s hardware products are manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia. A significant concentration of this manufacturing is currently performed by a small number of outsourcing partners, often in single locations. Certain of these outsourcing partners are the sole-sourced suppliers of components and manufacturers for many of the Company&#146;s products. Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Company&#146;s operating results could be adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments. The Company&#146;s purchase commitments typically cover its requirements for periods up to 150 days. 

Research and Development 

Because the industries in which the Company competes are characterized by rapid technological advances, the Company&#146;s ability to compete successfully depends heavily upon its ability to ensure a continual and timely flow of competitive products, services and technologies to the marketplace. The Company continues to develop new technologies to enhance existing products and to expand the range of its product offerings through research and development, licensing of intellectual property and acquisition of third-party businesses and technology. Total research and development expense was $3.4 billion, $2.4 billion, and $1.8 billion in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 

Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses 

The Company currently holds rights to patents and copyrights relating to certain aspects of its iPhone, iPad, Mac and iPod devices, peripherals, software and services. The Company has registered or has applied for trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and a number of foreign countries. Although the Company believes the ownership of such patents, copyrights, trademarks and service marks is an important factor in its business and that its success does depend in part on the ownership thereof, the Company relies primarily on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of its personnel. 

The Company regularly files patent applications to protect innovations arising from its research, development and design, and is currently pursuing thousands of patent applications around the world. Over time, the Company 

&#160; 

has accumulated a large portfolio of issued patents in the U.S. and worldwide. The Company holds copyrights relating to certain aspects of its products and services. No single patent or copyright is solely responsible for protecting the Company&#146;s products. The Company believes the duration of its patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of its products. 

Many of the Company&#146;s products are designed to include intellectual property obtained from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods. While the Company has generally been able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms in the past, there is no guarantee that such licenses could be obtained in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company&#146;s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents or intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. 

Foreign and Domestic Operations and Geographic Data 

During 2012, the Company&#146;s domestic and international net sales accounted for 39% and 61%, respectively, of total net sales. Information regarding financial data by geographic segment is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K under the subheading &#147;Segment Operating Performance,&#148; and in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 8, &#147;Segment Information and Geographic Data.&#148; 

Final assembly of the Company&#146;s products is currently performed in the Company&#146;s manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia. The supply and manufacture of a number of components is performed by sole-sourced outsourcing partners in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Outsourcing partners in Asia perform final assembly of substantially all of the Company&#146;s hardware products. Margins on sales of the Company&#146;s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Information regarding concentration in the available sources of supply of materials and products is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 7, &#147;Commitments and Contingencies.&#148; 

Seasonal Business 

The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first fiscal quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to holiday seasonal demand. Actual and anticipated timing of new product introductions by the Company can also significantly impact the level of net sales experienced by the Company in any particular quarter. However, neither historical seasonal patterns nor historical patterns of product introductions should be considered reliable indicators of the Company&#146;s future net sales or financial performance. 

Warranty 

The Company offers a limited parts and labor warranty on most of its hardware products. The basic warranty period is typically one year from the date of purchase by the original end-user. The Company also offers a 90-day basic warranty for its service parts used to repair the Company&#146;s hardware products. In addition, where available, consumers may purchase APP or APP+, which extends service coverage on many of the Company&#146;s hardware products. 

Backlog 

In the Company&#146;s experience, the actual amount of product backlog at any particular time is not a meaningful indication of its future business prospects. In particular, backlog often increases in anticipation of or immediately 

&#160; 

following new product introductions as customers anticipate shortages. Backlog is often reduced once customers believe they can obtain sufficient supply. Because of the foregoing, backlog should not be considered a reliable indicator of the Company&#146;s ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. 

Employees 

As of September 29, 2012, the Company had approximately 72,800 full-time equivalent employees and an additional 3,300 full-time equivalent temporary employees and contractors. Approximately 42,400 of the total full-time equivalent employees worked in the Company&#146;s Retail segment. 

Available Information 

The Company&#146;s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the &#147;Exchange Act&#148;), are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#147;SEC&#148;). The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and files or furnishes reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge on the Company&#146;s website at www.apple.com/investor when such reports are available on the SEC&#146;s website. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC&#146;s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company&#146;s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START 