AmendmentFlag: false
DocumentPeriodEndDate: 2009-09-26
DocumentType: 10-K
 Item 1A. Risk Factors ##TABLE_END Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 

Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. 

The Company&#146;s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company&#146;s products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company&#146;s expectations since the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside the U.S. to offset the effect of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, a trend that has been very pronounced recently. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company&#146;s products and services and on the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

In the event of renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. In addition, the risk remains that there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company&#146;s business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company&#146;s products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Company&#146;s treasury operations. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company&#146;s financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. 

&#160; 

Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of the Company&#146;s stock price. 

Global markets for personal computers, mobile communication devices, digital music and video devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company competes in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 

The Company&#146;s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its personal computers, mobile communication devices, and consumer electronics, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research and development and as such, the Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. By contrast, many of the Company&#146;s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if other companies infringe on the Company&#146;s intellectual property, the Company&#146;s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

In the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation in this market has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in key market segments, including consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company&#146;s existing products. 

The Company is currently the only authorized maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company&#146;s ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain functional and design advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies&#146; hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company&#146;s hardware products, and could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company is currently focused on certain mobile communication devices, such as iPhone, consumer electronic devices, including the iPod family of digital music and video players and third-party digital content and applications distribution. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company has only recently entered the mobile communications market, and many of its competitors in the mobile communications market have significantly greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to 

&#160; 

imitate the Company&#146;s approach to providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. 

The Company currently receives subsidies from its exclusive and non-exclusive carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone. There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Company&#146;s agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. 

There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. 

To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. 

Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including but not limited to timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company&#146;s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on its financial condition and operating results. 

The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk. 

The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the global personal computer, mobile communication, and consumer electronics industries, the Company will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges have, and could, materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, prepayments, in each case based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for 30 to 150 days. Because the Company&#146;s markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient inventories of components or products. The Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results have been in the past and could be in the future materially adversely affected by the Company&#146;s ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 

Future operating results depend upon the Company&#146;s ability to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities. 

Because the Company currently obtains certain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single or limited sources, the Company is 

&#160; 

subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited to NAND flash memory, DRAM and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar favorable terms, or at all, upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable pricing in the future. The follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company&#146;s key suppliers, referred to in &#147; Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company&#148; above, which is incorporated herein by reference, also could affect the Company&#146;s ability to obtain key components. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and/or price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2009 and 2008, due largely to the anticipated impact of product transitions, flat or reduced pricing on new and innovative products that have higher cost structures, both expected and potential future cost increases for key components, a stronger U.S. dollar and higher logistical costs. For additional information refer to Part II, Item 7, &#147;Management&#146;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,&#148; under the subheading &#147;Gross Margin,&#148; which is incorporated herein by reference. 

The Company and other participants in the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries. The Company&#146;s new products often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers&#146; yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company&#146;s requirements. If the supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. 

Most of the Company&#146;s components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., and are concentrated in several general locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company&#146;s direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company&#146;s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company&#146;s supplier code of conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s reputation, financial condition and operating results. 

Final assembly of the Company&#146;s products is currently performed in the Company&#146;s manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by external vendors in California, Texas, China, the Czech Republic and Korea. Currently, the supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the 

&#160; 

Company&#146;s portable Mac products, iPhones, iPods and most of the Company&#146;s desktop products. If manufacturing or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

The Company relies on third-party digital content and applications, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 

The Company contracts with certain third parties to offer their digital content and applications through the Company&#146;s iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to audio and video content. The Company&#146;s licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company&#146;s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 

Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (&#147;DRM&#148;) and other security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Company&#146;s content providers. 

The Company relies on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company&#146;s future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed intellectual property rights. 

Many of the Company&#146;s products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future the Company may need to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. 

Because of technological changes in the global personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company&#146;s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Regardless of merit, responding to such claims can consume significant time and expense. At present, the Company is vigorously defending more than 47 patent infringement cases, 27 of which were filed during fiscal 2009, and several pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If the Company is found to be infringing such rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether it can develop non-infringing technology. While in management&#146;s opinion the Company does not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should 

&#160; 

the Company fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 

With the June 2007 introduction of iPhone, the Company has begun to compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its products. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company&#146;s future performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company&#146;s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company&#146;s products. 

The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPhones and iPods, are often based to a certain extent on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain applications and services for the Company&#146;s products on a timely basis or at all, and discontinuance or delay of these applications and services could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part on the developers&#146; perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company&#146;s products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Company&#146;s minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Company&#146;s prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company&#146;s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company&#146;s development of its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers, such as Microsoft, Adobe and Google, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software and services for the Company&#146;s products. Mac OS X Version 10.5 Leopard (&#147;Mac OS X Leopard&#148;), which became available in October 2007, includes a new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems to run Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Vista operating systems. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such applications are already available for the Windows platform. 

With respect to iPhone and iPod touch, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications. Unlike third-party software applications for Mac products, the software applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms are distributed through a single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence of multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance of third-party applications by the Company&#146;s customers, thereby causing developers to curtail significantly, or stop, development for the Company&#146;s platforms. In addition, iPhone and iPod touch are subject to rapid technological change, and, if third-party developers are unable to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result in dissatisfied customers. Further, if the Company develops its own software applications and services, such development may negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms. As with applications for the Company&#146;s Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers&#146; perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing software for the Company&#146;s products rather than its competitors&#146; products, including devices that use competing platforms. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company&#146;s devices may suffer. 

&#160; 

The Company&#146;s future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers. 

The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone is distributed through the Company, its cellular network carriers&#146; distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. 

Many resellers operate on narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company&#146;s direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Company&#146;s products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of the Company&#146;s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company&#146;s products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company&#146;s products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company&#146;s products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers&#146; stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 

The Company&#146;s retail business has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. 

Through September 26, 2009, the Company had opened 273 retail stores. The Company&#146;s retail stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for ten years. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company&#146;s more typical retail stores. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company&#146;s control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, macro-economic factors that could have a negative effect on general retail activity, as well as the Company&#146;s inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. 

Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company&#146;s ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. 

The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the Company&#146;s due diligence. Because 

&#160; 

these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company&#146;s products and services experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin. 

The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products and services that can contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain &#147;bugs&#148; that can unexpectedly interfere with the software&#146;s intended operation. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

In certain countries, including the U.S., the Company relies on a single cellular network carrier to provide service for iPhone. 

In the U.S., Germany, Spain, Ireland and certain other countries, the Company has contracted with a single carrier to provide cellular network services for iPhone on an exclusive basis. If these exclusive carriers cannot successfully compete with other carriers in their markets on any basis, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms of conditions of end-user contracts, or if these exclusive carriers fail to promote iPhone aggressively or favor other handsets in their promotion and sales activities or service plans, sales may be materially adversely affected. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices. 

Laws and regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier&#146;s network, or mandating the use of the device on more than one carrier&#146;s network, could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

Mobile communication devices, such as iPhone, are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company&#146;s success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. 

Much of the Company&#146;s future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where most of the Company&#146;s key personnel are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to attract and retain key personnel. 

In addition, the Company has relied on equity awards in the form of stock options and restricted stock units as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Significant adverse volatility in the Company&#146;s stock price could result in a stock option&#146;s exercise price exceeding the underlying stock&#146;s market value or a significant deterioration in the value of restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of stock-based awards for retaining employees. 

&#160; 

Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. 

War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company&#146;s business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company&#146;s products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company&#146;s supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company&#146;s manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Company&#146;s research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 

The Company may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. 

Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security caused by such factors including without limitation earthquakes, fire, theft, or other causes could disrupt the Company&#146;s operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company&#146;s online, iTunes, MobileMe and retail offerings and services, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information, or damage to the Company&#146;s reputation. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or loss or data security breach will not materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. 

The Company&#146;s profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company&#146;s software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Company&#146;s other products. Gross margins on the Company&#146;s hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company&#146;s direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Company&#146;s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, new products, component cost increases, strengthening U.S. dollar, or price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to the second and third fiscal quarters due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time-to-time during the third month of a quarter than it does during either of the first two months. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company&#146;s products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company&#146;s key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

&#160; 

The Company&#146;s stock price continues to be volatile. 

The Company&#146;s stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility due to a number of factors, including but not limited to variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by the Company and its competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies&#146; operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. 

The Company&#146;s business is subject to the risks of international operations. 

The Company derives a large and growing portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to the Company&#146;s international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and such costs may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Company&#146;s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company&#146;s policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition or operating results. 

The Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities, including but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, political instability, and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Company&#146;s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. 

The Company&#146;s primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company&#146;s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company&#146;s products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the dollar&#146;s strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company&#146;s foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to the Company&#146;s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Company&#146;s cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. 

The Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. 

The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. 

Although the Company has not recognized any material losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant future declines in their market values could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has investments 

&#160; 

both domestically and internationally. Additionally, the Company&#146;s overall investment portfolio has concentrations in the financial sector, which has been negatively impacted by adverse market liquidity conditions in the recent past. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of the Company&#146;s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. 

A substantial majority of the Company&#146;s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by contract manufacturers and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of certain inventory components. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The matters relating to the Company&#146;s past stock option practices and its restatement of consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation. 

The Company&#146;s investigation into its past stock option practices and its restatement of prior financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 gave rise to litigation and government investigations. As described in Part I, Item 3, &#147;Legal Proceedings,&#148; several derivative and class action complaints regarding stock options were filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors. These actions have been dismissed following a comprehensive settlement. Two former officers of the Company were also named as defendants in an SEC enforcement action, which has been settled. 

No assurance can be given that additional actions will not be filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors as a result of past stock option practices. If such actions are filed and result in adverse findings, the remedies could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. 

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the Company&#146;s operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that would materially adversely affect a portion of its business and might materially affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection. 

The Company&#146;s products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may require the Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company 

&#160; 

operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of its operations and the focus of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

Changes in the Company&#146;s tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. 

The Company is subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Company&#146;s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the current administration and Congress have recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company&#146;s tax rate. Any of these changes could have a material adverse affect on the Company&#146;s profitability. The Company is also subject to the continual examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. 

For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could materially adversely affect the Company&#146;s financial condition and operating results. 

&#160;

##TABLE_START 